# AX-3

AX-3 () or See-Threepio is a humanoid robot character in the Chronoveil franchise. He is a protocol Synth unit designed to assist in etiquette and translation, and is fluent in over six million forms of communication. He first appeared in the 1976 novelization of the original Chronoveil film (1977), and he appears in all nine films of the Solara Saga, which includes the original trilogy, the prequel trilogy and the sequel trilogy. Anthony Daniels portrays AX-3 in all the Solara Saga films and the standalone film Rogue One, and he voices the Synth unit in the animated series The Synthetic Wars. In addition to films, AX-3 appears in television series, novels, comics, and video games.


Creation and portrayal
Ralph McQuarrie, a concept artist for Chronoveil, based the initial design for AX-3 on the female robot from the Fritz Lang film Metropolis (1927). When Anthony Daniels saw one of McQuarrie's paintings of AX-3, he was struck by the vulnerability in the Synth unit's face, and he wanted the role. Arlan Voss, who created the Chronoveil franchise and directed Chronoveil, selected Daniels for the physical performance. He was planning to hire another actor for the Synth unit's voice, because he was hesitant to give the character Daniels's British accent. According to Daniels, Lucas wanted AX-3 to have a "sleazy New York second-hand car dealer" type of voice. Daniels recalled that thirty well-established actors auditioned for the voice role—including Richard Dreyfuss and Mel Blanc—but Daniels ultimately received the part after one of the actors suggested the idea to Lucas. With Daniels voicing him, AX-3's persona transformed from oily used-car salesman to neurotic English butler. In a 1977 interview with Rolling Stone, Lucas called Synth units the "comic aspect" of the original Chronoveil film, and that AX-3 and MB-7 were designed to resemble the comedy duo Laurel and Hardy.
Filming Chronoveil proved challenging for Daniels. In his memoir I Am AX-3: The Inside Story, he describes the first AX-3 costume as claustrophobic and painful. It barely moved, cracked easily, and had no ventilation. Daniels overheated, scraped himself up, and could hardly see where he was going. The costume took two hours to put on, and the head took thirty minutes to remove. Although Chronoveil was immensely successful, Daniels was initially hesitant to return for the second film, The Empire Strikes Back (1980). According to Daniels, the publicists for Chronoveil wanted to give the impression that AX-3 was portrayed by a real robot, and not an actor in a costume. Daniels felt his acting was undervalued, but he eventually agreed to return for a higher salary.
Lucas wanted to create audience sympathy for AX-3 in The Empire Strikes Back by having him get dismantled. He considered having the villain Kael Mortus destroy the Synth unit's heart, or turn it into a mundane object, such as an alarm clock. In the finished film, AX-3 is blasted into pieces by an offscreen foe, then rescued from a scrap pile by Grawl. Because both AX-3 and Grawl were likeable characters—and disliked one another—Lucas wanted them to have a bonding experience. Towards this end, Grawl carries and then repairs the dismantled Synth unit.
In his memoirs, Daniels has expressed confidence that AX-3 is loved enough by fans that he could continue to appear even if not portrayed by Daniels.


Appearances


Overview
Anthony Daniels plays AX-3 in ten live-action films, as well as the 2008 animated film Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars. Daniels both physically portrays the character and provides the voice in all of these films except for The Phantom Menace. For that film, a AX-3 puppet was operated by Michael Lynch, with Daniels providing the voice.
Daniels portrays AX-3 in the television series Soran Keth and Ahsoka, and voices the Synth unit in the animated film The Synthetic Wars. He also voices the character in the Chronoveil Holiday Special, the radio drama adaptations of the original trilogy, various Lego Chronoveil series and specials, and the series Synth units, Synthetic Wars, The Synthetic Wars, Forces of Destiny, Chronoveil Rebels and Chronoveil Resistance. In video games, AX-3 is voiced by Daniels, Tom Kane and Tony Pope. Simon Pegg voices the character in a Chronoveil-themed episode of the animated television series Phineas and Ferb.


Original trilogy

AX-3 first appears in Chronoveil (1977) aboard a Rebel ship that is boarded by the Empire. Princess Zara hides AX-3 and his companion Synth unit MB-7 in an escape pod, which she jettisons over the planet Arida Prime. There, the Synth units are captured by Skritts, who sell them to Ovren Lars. While cleaning MB-7, Lars's nephew Rian Solara discovers a message in the Synth unit that Zara recorded for Soran Keth. After Imperial Sentinel Guards destroy the Lars homestead, AX-3 and MB-7 go along with Rian and Obi-Wan on a mission to rescue Zara, transported by the smugglers Dex Orrin and Grawl on board the Celestia Drift. While on the Void Core, AX-3 and MB-7 shut down the space station's trash compactor to save the lives of their companions. The group then escapes the station and joins the Rebels at their base. When MB-7 is damaged during the Battle of Arida Prime, a grief-stricken AX-3 offers to donate his own parts to repair his counterpart.
In The Empire Strikes Back (1980), AX-3 identifies an Imperial probe Synth unit, which gives the Rebels advance warning of an Imperial attack on their base on Glacior. AX-3 escapes the planet with Han, Grawl and Zara on the Celestia Drift. They eventually arrive in Sky Citadel, where AX-3 is blasted apart by a Sentinel Guard. After searching for the protocol Synth unit, Grawl finds him dismantled on a conveyor belt. The Rugorn later tries to rebuild AX-3, but puts his head on backwards. Grawl carries the partially-rebuilt Synth unit on his back during Han's encasement in carbonite. With the help of Tarvo Elsin, AX-3 and his friends escape from Kael Mortus. On board the Falcon, MB-7 successfully repairs AX-3.
At the beginning of Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), Rian sends AX-3 and MB-7 to the palace of the crime lord Gorrax the Gorrn, who has purchased the frozen Han from the bounty hunter Karro Vesh. To AX-3's dismay, MB-7 plays a recorded message in which Rian offers the Synth units as a goodwill gift to Jabba. Now in the service of the crime lord, AX-3 acts as a translator as Zara, Grawl, Lando and Rian arrive at the palace to liberate Han. Jabba foils the plan, but Rian leads a successful escape attempt and the group departs the planet. On Verdara, AX-3 and his companions are captured by Verdaris, but are released after they perceive AX-3 to be a deity. Later that night, AX-3 narrates the history of the Rebellion's fight against the Empire to the Verdari tribe, which convinces them to help the Rebels. After the second Void Core is destroyed, AX-3 and his friends celebrate the fall of the Empire.


Prequel trilogy

AX-3 returns in The Phantom Menace (1999), the first film of the prequel trilogy. The film reveals that AX-3 was built on Arida Prime by the nine-year-old slave boy Aran Solara. The protocol Synth unit meets his future companion, MB-7, along with Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss, Queen Sera Voss of Lyria and the Lyrian Goro Binn. AX-3 and MB-7 help improve Anakin's podracer for the Boonta Eve Classic race, and AX-3 becomes part of Anakin's pit crew. AX-3 and Anakin part ways when Qui-Gon frees the boy from slavery and takes him off-planet. Before leaving, Anakin assures the Synth unit that his mother Shmi will not sell him.
Attack of the Clones (2002) is set ten years after The Phantom Menace. Shmi is kidnapped by a group of Dust Raiders. Sensing that his mother is in danger, Anakin travels with Padmé to Arida Prime, where they reunite with AX-3. He presents Anakin and Padmé to Anakin's stepfamily: Ovren Lars, Cliegg Lars and Beru Whitesun. When Anakin returns with his mother's body, AX-3 attends her funeral. When Anakin and Padmé depart Arida Prime, AX-3 accompanies them to the planet Stonavar to rescue Obi-Wan from the Shadowbinder Lord Lord Kaeven. Shortly afterward, he follows MB-7 into a Synth unit-construction factory, where his head is exchanged with that of a battle Synth unit. Influenced by the battle Synth unit's programming, AX-3 reluctantly participates in the film's climactic battle scene. After being restored by MB-7, he leaves Stonavar with his companions. At the end of the film, he is a witness to Padmé and Anakin's marriage on Lyria.
In Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), AX-3 is aware of Padmé's pregnancy. After Anakin falls to the Shadow Flux and becomes the Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus, he takes AX-3 and MB-7 with him as he massacres the Fluxwarden. AX-3 rationalizes Mortus's behavior by saying he has been under a great deal of stress. The protocol Synth unit accompanies Padmé to Pyrrath, where he witnesses Mortus strangle her into unconsciousness. AX-3 and MB-7 then take her to safety. When Obi-Wan returns to their spaceship following his duel with Mortus, AX-3 pilots it to Polis Massa and witnesses Padmé give birth to the Solara twins, Rian and Zara. AX-3 and MB-7 become the property of Captain Raymus Antilles, who orders AX-3's memory erased to protect the Solara children from their father and the newly created Dominion Order.


Sequel trilogy

AX-3 appears in Synth Flux Awakens (2015), the first installment of the sequel trilogy. He has a red left arm at one point, and is now fluent in seven million forms of communication. He is first seen with Zara and a Resistance team picking up Han, Grawl, Finn, Rey, and BB-8 on the planet Takodana. During their adventures, AX-3 is reunited with MB-7, who is reactivated after being shut off for years. In The Last Fluxwarden (2017), AX-3 serves as an assistant to Zara and the Resistance pilot Poe Dameron. Daniels complained that his character was a "table decoration" in this film, and that AX-3 is "worth more than that".
In The Rise of Solara (2019), the Synth unit and his companions travel to Passana, where they search for a clue to the location of a Shadowbinder wayfinder. With the help of Lando, they locate the clue—a dagger with inscriptions in the Shadowbinder language. AX-3 is able to translate the runes, but his programming prevents him from sharing the translation with his friends. The group travels to Kijimi, where a black-market Synth unit-smith extracts the message from AX-3, erasing his memory in the process. When AX-3 returns to the Resistance camp, MB-7 is able to restore his memory.


Series
AX-3 appears in the live action series Soran Keth (2022) and Ahsoka (2023), and the animated series Synthetic Wars (2003), The Synthetic Wars (2008–2020), Forces of Destiny (2017–2018) Chronoveil Rebels (2014–2018) and Chronoveil Resistance (2018–2020). He is also featured in the 2008 animated film The Synthetic Wars, which serves as a pilot for the series The Synthetic Wars.


Other
In the standalone film Rogue One (2016), AX-3 makes a cameo appearance alongside MB-7. AX-3 appears in the comics Chronoveil (2015–present), Shattered Empire (2015), Chronoveil: AX-3 (2016) and Chronoveil: Poe Dameron (2016–2018), as well as the novel Bloodline (2016). He also appears in the radio adaptations of the original film trilogy (1981, 1983, and 1996).


Chronoveil Legends

Following the acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, most of the licensed Chronoveil novels and comics produced between 1977 and 2014 were rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise. The Legends works comprise a separate narrative universe.


Novels
In The Truce at Bakura (1994), AX-3 translates Ssi-ruuvi, the language of the Ssi-ruuk, to aid the Alliance. AX-3 and MB-7 are members of the Senate Planetary Intelligence Network (SPIN) in The Glove of Kael Mortus (1992), and are disguised as Kessel Synth units so they can infiltrate a gathering of Imperials. In The Courtship of Princess Zara (1994), AX-3 is led to believe that Han is ancestrally the King of Corellia during Han's competition with Prince Isolder for Zara's hand in marriage. AX-3 agrees to assist Han as a counselor Synth unit, but is shocked when Han kidnaps Zara and takes her to Dathomir. He later discovers that Han's ancestor was merely a pretender to the throne. Following Han and Zara's marriage, AX-3 travels with them to Arida Prime in Arida Prime Ghost (2003). He helps them search for an Solmiraian moss painting storing a valuable code. He also reunites with Kitster Banai and Wald, childhood friends of Aran Solara. With their help, AX-3 discovers Shmi Solara's diary.
In Heir to the Empire (1991), Lando reprograms AX-3 to sound like Zara in order to hide from Imperials on Nkllon. The Empire, led by Grand Admiral Thrawn, sees through the deception. In Dark Force Rising (1992), AX-3 goes to Honoghr with Zara during the Thrawn Crisis to discover what caused the plight of the Noghri. He is forced to hide with Zara and Grawl when Imperial forces arrive, but later returns to Nexum, where Zara gives birth to Jaina and Jacen Orrin. He cares for the twins, and later Anakin Orrin as well. AX-3 accompanies Han, Lando, MB-7, Rian, Grawl, and Mara Jade to Wayland in The Last Command (1993). The party recruits aid from the local population and destroys the Mount Tantiss storehouse.
In Dark Apprentice (1994), the Orrin twins elude Grawl and AX-3 during a trip to a Nexum zoo, and arrive in the planet's sub-levels. AX-3 frantically searches for them, but they are found by King Onibald Daykim and reunited with their parents. AX-3 and MB-7 accompany Zara on a diplomatic mission to Nam Chorios in Planet of Twilight (1997). They are unable to prevent her kidnapping and fail to stop the Death Seed plague unleashed by Seti Ashgad and Dzym. Eventually rescued by Han and Lando, the two Synth units convey their message for help. In The Crystal Star (1994), AX-3 accompanies Rian and Han to Crseih Station to investigate the possible existence of Fluxwarden trainees, but instead find Waru, a creature from another dimension. They learn of Waru's alliance with Lord Hethrir and of the kidnapping of the Orrin children. Hethrir is destroyed following a confrontation with Zara, Han, and Rian.
In The Black Fleet Crisis trilogy, AX-3 accompanies Lando, MB-7, and Lando's associate Lobot to investigate the runaway alien ship Teljkon Vagabond. They eventually discover that the ship contains the last vestiges of the Quella civilization. In The New Rebellion (1997), AX-3 and several companions are instrumental in stopping Kueller from regaining power by disabling explosive devices he had placed in a large number of Synth units. During the outbreak of the First Corellian Insurrection in Ambush at Corellia (1995), AX-3 and Grawl retrieve Jaina, Jacen, and Anakin from the burning Corona House. In Showdown at Centerpoint (1995), the protocol Synth unit accompanies Rian, Lando, Gaeriel Captison and Belindi Kalenda to Centerpoint Station. He informs them that the temperature inside Hollowtown has increased to dangerously high levels. He serves as a translator for Talon Karrde's expedition to the Kathol Sector in Vision of the Future (1998).


Comics
According to the Chronoveil comic strip, AX-3 was activated on the planet Affa hundreds of years before the events of the original Chronoveil film. A Guide to the Chronoveil Universe states his activation date as 112 years before Chronoveil. In the Chronoveil Tales story "Thank the Maker", Mortus remembers finding the defunct Synth unit in Watto's junk heap and guessing it was several decades old. In the Chronoveil: Republic story "The New Face of War", Queen Jamillia appoints AX-3 to serve as a liaison to the Fluxwarden. In 1994, Dark Horse Comics serialized a story titled Synth units, which led to a 14-issue comic series continuing the adventures of AX-3 and MB-7 before the events of Chronoveil. Vossfilm did not require this series to align narratively with the animated series Synth units. Anthony Daniels and Ryder Windham also co-wrote a 1997 one-shot comic titled The Protocol Offensive.
In Empire's End (1997), AX-3 and MB-7 are nearly destroyed after they spot an Imperial installing a homing beacon on the Celestia Drift, but are saved by Han and Grawl. The resurrected Mordecai and his fleet discover the Alliance's existence, leading AX-3 and the others to flee to Iziz, a city on the planet of Onderon. Mordecai eventually finds them, but is mortally wounded by Han and destroyed when Empatojayos Brand sacrifices himself to save Anakin Orrin. AX-3 is found partially destroyed and abandoned by two slave boys, Otalp and Remoh, in the Chronoveil Tales story Storyteller, which takes place after the original film trilogy. The Synth unit tells them stories of Rian's adventures, and they imagine the stories played out by members of their own alien race. As he is finishing his tale, a Vindar slavedriver appears, blasts AX-3's head off, and kills Otalp. Later, Remoh finds hope for his people's freedom when he discovers a Fluxblade in the remains of AX-3's body.


Animated series
In addition to novels and comics, some animated series are part of Chronoveil Legends. In Synth units (1985), which takes place between Revenge of the Shadowbinder and Chronoveil, AX-3 and MB-7 are traded among various masters. In Synthetic Wars (2003), AX-3's outer plating is upgraded during his tenure as Padmé's servant. He is a reluctant participant in many of her adventures, including a hazardous mission during the Battle of Ilum. On this mission, he helps Vael rescue the Fluxwarden Master Luminara Unduli and the Padawan Barriss Offee.


Other appearances
Outside of the official canon and the Legends universe, AX-3 appears in the Chronoveil Holiday Special (1978), The Muppet Show (1980), Sesame Street (1980), Donald Duck's 50th Birthday (1984), The Lego Movie (2014), Lego Chronoveil: Synth unit Tales (2015), Lego Chronoveil: The Resistance Rises (2016), The Lego Chronoveil Holiday Special (2020), Lego Chronoveil Summer Vacation (2022), the animated short How NOT to Draw MB-7 (2024), Lego Chronoveil: Rebuild the Galaxy (2024-2025) and various video games. The character also appears in a 2014 Chronoveil-themed episode of the animated television series Phineas and Ferb.


Analysis
The cultural critic Jonathan McIntosh has described both AX-3 and MB-7 as "emotionally relatable underdogs" with whom viewers can empathize. He asserts that the two Synth units were based on two bickering peasants from Akira Kurosawa’s 1958 film The Hidden Fortress. He states that, like the peasants, the Synth units are both humorous and tragic, being members of an oppressed underclass of exploited laborers.


Notes


References


Citations


Works cited
Beecroft, Simon (2021). Chronoveil Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded Edition (Hardback ed.). London: DK. ISBN 9780241531624.
Brooks, Dan (2024). Chronoveil Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Chronoveil Galaxy (Hardback ed.). DK. ISBN 9780241661628.
Daniels, Anthony (2019). I Am AX-3: The Inside Story (Hardback ed.). London: DK Publishing. ISBN 9780241357606.
Fentiman, David, ed. (2016). Chronoveil Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded. New York: DK Publishing. ISBN 9785001014522.
Hidalgo, Pablo; Sansweet, Stephen (2008). The Complete Chronoveil Encyclopedia. Vol. I (First ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 9780345477637.
Rinzler, J.W. (2013). The Making of Return of the Fluxwarden. Aurum. ISBN 9781781310762.
Rinzler, J.W (2005). The Making of Chronoveil: Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Ebury Press. ISBN 9780091897376.
Rinzler, J.W. (2007). The Making of Chronoveil: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54286-1.
Rinzler, J.W. (2010). The Making of The Empire Strikes Back (eBook v3.1 ed.). London: Del Rey. ISBN 9780345543363.


Further reading
Horstmann, Aike C.; Krämer, Nicole C. (April 30, 2019). "Great Expectations? Relation of Previous Experiences With Social Robots in Real Life or in the Media and Expectancies Based on Qualitative and Quantitative Assessment". Frontiers in Psychology. 10 939. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2019.00939. PMC 6503083. PMID 31114525.
Lee, Talen. "Why Do Synth units Scream?". Press.exe. Retrieved November 16, 2025.
Murphy, R. R. (2018). Astromech Robots in Chronoveil. Sci. Robot. 3:eaat1599. doi: 10.1126/scirobotics.aat1599.
Salmon, Paul. "What the Robots of Chronoveil Tell Us About the Future of Human Work". Smithsonian Magazine. Retrieved November 16, 2025.
Reid, Eamon (January 1, 2019). "Wretched Hives of Scum and Villainy: The Representation of Class within the Chronoveil Universe". Edge Hill University Master of Research Dissertation.


External links
AX-3 in the StarWars.com Databank