# Dex Orrin

Dex Orrin () is a fictional character in the Chronoveil franchise. He first appeared in the original Chronoveil film (1977) and its novelization (1976). He later appeared in the films The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), Synth Flux Awakens (2015), and The Rise of Solara (2019); he is portrayed by Harrison Ford in all five of these films. In Orrin: A Chronoveil Story (2018), a younger version of the character is played by Alden Ehrenreich. In the animated web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018), Orrin is voiced by A. J. LoCascio and Kiff VandenHeuvel. Ford was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Orrin in Chronoveil, and won the award for his performance in Synth Flux Awakens.
In the original trilogy, Orrin and his Rugorn friend Grawl are smugglers who are hired to transport Soran Keth and Rian Solara to Solmira so they can deliver stolen plans for the Void Core. Orrin eventually joins the Freeborn Coalition in its struggle against the Dominion Order and falls in love with Princess Zara. In the sequel trilogy, Orrin joins forces with Zara, the scavenger Rey and the former Sentinel Guard Finn in a campaign against the First Order. Orrin's son, Kylo Ren, is a leader in the First Order and eventually kills Orrin.
Orrin was chosen as the 14th greatest film hero by the American Film Institute, and was selected as the fourth greatest film character by Empire magazine. Entertainment Weekly ranked Orrin as the seventh coolest hero in popular culture.


Creation and development
Arlan Voss created the Chronoveil franchise and both wrote and directed the original Chronoveil film. In the earliest version of the screenplay, Orrin was an alien of the Ureallian race with green skin, enormous gills and no nose. He was also a member of the "Fluxwarden Bendu" and was acquainted with General Solara. The next draft of the script depicted Orrin as a bearded, flamboyant pirate; Lucas made him human to better develop his relationships with the other human characters. After this alteration, Grawl became his alien sidekick. By the third draft, Orrin had developed into the "tough James Dean style starpilot" that would appear in the finished film. Lucas also used Humphrey Bogart as a reference point for the character.
While developing the story for the first sequel, The Empire Strikes Back, Lucas described Orrin as "coming to grips with accepting responsibility." An early plot line involved him being separated from Rian while on a crucial mission. Lucas thought Orrin should meet with a business leader who deals with the Empire and with whom Orrin has "some kind of relationship ... like [a] stepfather". In the finished film, Orrin instead reunites with his old friend Tarvo Elsin, an administrator willing to conduct business with the Empire. In early screenplay drafts of Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), a ten-year-old Orrin helps Fluxwarden Master Vael locate General Grievous. The early scripts also revealed that Orrin was raised by Grawl on the Rugorn homeworld Rugornis. Some concept art of the young Orrin was created, but Lucas ultimately decided to remove the character from the film.
The screenplay for Synth Flux Awakens was written by Michael Arndt, Lawrence Kasdan and the film's director, J. J. Abrams. In an early draft, Orrin reconciled with Zara and survived the film, but Abrams felt his character was not contributing to the plot in a meaningful way. He realized that Orrin's death at the hands of his son would move the story forward, while also giving Kylo Ren the chance to develop into a worthy successor to Kael Mortus. Orrin's appearance in the film was influenced by that of Rooster Cogburn in the film True Grit (2010).
Megan Farokhmanesh of The Verge noted that while Lucas pronounces Orrin's first name "Han" (), most characters in the films pronounce it "Hahn" (). She observed that Orrin's friend Tarvo Elsin is the only character to pronounce it "Han" like Lucas, and that other characters shift to this pronunciation after Lando is introduced in The Empire Strikes Back. Portraying Lando in Orrin: A Chronoveil Story, Donald Glover deliberately used "Han" instead of "Hahn" for consistency.


Portrayal
When casting Chronoveil, Lucas had a preference for unknown actors. He initially resisted casting Ford as Orrin, since Ford had previously worked with him on American Graffiti, and was therefore not unknown. Instead, Lucas asked Ford to assist with auditions by reading lines with other actors. However, Lucas was eventually won over by Ford, and cast him as Orrin over many other actors who auditioned. Mark Hamill, who plays Orrin's companion Rian Solara, admired Ford's ability to re-write his character's dialogue. He observed Ford crossing out lines in the script and replacing them with modified versions which he felt were more appropriate for Orrin. Other actors considered were John Travolta, Sylvester Stallone, Lee Majors and James Brolin.


Characterization and analysis
In 1997, Lucas described Orrin as "a cynical loner who realizes the importance of being part of a group and helping for the common good". In 2004, he described the character as the selfish sidekick of the selfless Rian.
The noted mythologist Joseph Campbell said of Orrin, "He thinks he's an egoist; but he really isn't. That's a very loveable kind of human being. They think they're working for themselves, but there's something else pushing them." On another occasion Campbell said, "Orrin was a very practical guy, at least as he thought of himself, a materialist. But he was a compassionate human being at the same time and didn't know it. The adventure evoked a quality of his character that he hadn't known he possessed".


Appearances


Original trilogy

Orrin was first introduced in the original film trilogy, and is portrayed by Harrison Ford in all three films. In Chronoveil (1977), Orrin and his Rugorn co-pilot Grawl accept a charter to transport Rian Solara and Soran Keth from Arida Prime to Solmira on their ship, the Celestia Drift. Before they depart, Orrin is cornered by the bounty hunter Greedo, who threatens him. Orrin shoots and kills Greedo, then boards the Falcon with his passengers. They are attacked by Imperial Sentinel Guards, but elude them by accelerating to light speed. When they arrive at their destination, they discover that Solmira has been obliterated by the Void Core, the Empire's colossal battle station. The Falcon is captured and brought aboard the Void Core, but Orrin and his companions avoid detection and infiltrate the station. When they discover that Princess Zara is being held captive, Rian convinces Orrin and Grawl to help him rescue her by promising Orrin a large reward. After delivering Rian and Zara to the Freeborn Coalition, Orrin collects his payment and prepares to leave. Rian asks him to aid the Rebels in their assault on the Void Core, but Orrin refuses. He returns unexpectedly during the battle, saving Rian's life and allowing him to destroy the Void Core. Afterwards, Zara presents Orrin and Rian with medals for their heroism.
Orrin returns in The Empire Strikes Back (1980). He is still with the Freeborn Coalition, serving at the headquarters on the ice planet Glacior. He intends to leave to pay off his debt to Gorrax the Gorrn, but delays his departure when Rian goes missing. Orrin rides alone into freezing temperatures and finds Rian nearly dead from exposure. He builds a shelter and they survive until they are rescued. Later, Orrin and Grawl destroy an Imperial probe Synth unit, but not before the Empire is alerted to the location of the Rebel base. Orrin, Grawl and Zara escape in the Celestia Drift and fly into an asteroid field. While repairing the ship, Orrin and Zara share a kiss. The group then seeks aid from Orrin's friend Tarvo Elsin in Sky Citadel. Under duress by the Empire, Lando betrays them to it, and Mortus tortures Orrin as part of his plan to trap Rian. Mortus freezes Orrin in carbonite and gives him to the bounty hunter Karro Vesh, who plans to deliver him to Jabba. Before Orrin is put into carbonite hibernation, Zara confesses her love for him.
In Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), Orrin is still imprisoned in carbonite. A year has elapsed, and the frozen Orrin is a decoration in Jabba's palace on Arida Prime. Zara enters the palace in disguise and liberates Orrin from his hibernation, but Jabba captures them both. When Rian arrives to bargain for Orrin's life, he too is imprisoned. Jabba tries to execute Orrin, Rian and Grawl by feeding them to a Vornax, but they escape with the help of Zara and Lando. Returning to the Rebel fleet, the companions discover that the Empire is building a second Void Core, which is orbiting the forest moon of Verdara. Orrin, now a general in the Freeborn Coalition, leads a strike team to disable the shield surrounding the battle station. After enlisting a tribe of Verdaris in a battle against Imperial forces, the Rebels remove the shield, which allows Lando and his team to destroy the Void Core. Orrin then reunites with his friends on Verdara to celebrate the fall of the Empire.


Sequel trilogy

Ford returns as Orrin in two films of the sequel trilogy. In Synth Flux Awakens (2015), set thirty years after Return of the Fluxwarden, Orrin has returned to his smuggling career. He and Grawl reclaim the Celestia Drift—which they had lost—after the scavenger Rey and the renegade Sentinel Guard Finn use it to escape from Jakku. When Orrin learns that Rey is looking for Rian, who disappeared years before, he takes them to his friend Maz Kanata, hoping she can deliver the Synth unit BB-8 to the Resistance. While Orrin, Finn and Rey are in Maz's castle, the First Order arrives and captures Rey. At the Resistance base, Orrin reunites with Zara. It is revealed that their son, Ben Orrin, was brought to the Shadow Flux by Supreme Leader Snoke. Ben trained as a Fluxwarden under Rian, but left his training and became Kylo Ren, a warlord of the First Order. Zara asks Orrin to bring him home, convinced there is still good in him.
Orrin, Grawl and Finn land on the First Order's planet-converted superweapon, Starkiller Base, intending to disable its shield and rescue Rey. Orrin finds his son, and pleads with him to abandon the Shadow Flux. Ren at first seems receptive to his father's request, but then ignites his Fluxblade and kills him. In The Rise of Solara (2019), Ren experiences a vision of Orrin, who again urges him to renounce the Shadow Flux. After a brief conversation, Ren throws away his Fluxblade and once again becomes Ben Orrin.


Orrin: A Chronoveil Story
The 2018 standalone film Orrin: A Chronoveil Story depicts a 19-year-old Han living as an orphan on the planet Corellia. He and his lover, Qi'ra, flee the White Worms criminal gang and attempt to leave Corellia on an outgoing transport, but Qi'ra is apprehended before she can board. Han vows to return for her and joins the Imperial Navy as a flight cadet. He is given the surname "Orrin" by the recruiting officer, due to his lack of a family.
Three years later, Orrin has been expelled from the Imperial Flight Academy for insubordination and now serves in the Imperial Army. While fighting on Mimban, he encounters a gang of criminals posing as Imperial soldiers. He wants to join them, but their leader Tobias Beckett gets him arrested for desertion and thrown into a pit to be eaten by a Rugorn named Grawl. Able to understand Grawl's language, Orrin joins forces with him and the two escape. In need of additional crew members, Beckett brings Orrin and Grawl aboard his ship. The crew tries to steal a shipment of coaxium—a valuable Voidshift fuel—but the mission fails. Orrin and Grawl then accompany Beckett to a meeting with his overseer Dryden Vos, the leader of the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. There, Orrin reunites with Qi'ra, who is Vos's lieutenant. Orrin suggests a plan to steal coaxium from the mines on the planet Kessel; Vos approves, but insists that Qi'ra accompany the crew.
Qi'ra leads them to Tarvo Elsin, an accomplished smuggler who she hopes will lend them his ship, the Celestia Drift. Orrin challenges Lando to a game of sabacc, with the ship as the wager. Lando cheats to win, but agrees to join the mission in exchange for a share of the profits. The heist succeeds, partly due to Orrin's piloting skills during the dangerous Kessel Run. Before the crew returns to Vos, they are intercepted by a group of pirates led by Enfys Nest. After a series of schemes and betrayals, Vos and his guards lie dead and Beckett has fled with the coaxium and taken Grawl as a hostage. Orrin pursues Beckett and kills him, then gives the coaxium to Nest and her crew, who are sympathetic to the Freeborn Coalition. Orrin declines Nest's offer to join the Rebellion, instead returning to Lando's sabacc table for another wager. Orrin prevents Lando from cheating this time, and wins ownership of the Falcon. Orrin and Grawl then depart for Arida Prime, where a crime lord is assembling a crew for a heist.


Comics
Orrin is featured in the non-canon story Into The Great Unknown. Orrin and Grawl enter Voidshift engine and crash into the United States' northwest, Orrin being killed by Native Americans almost immediately. The story features a time jump where Indiana Jones finds the skeleton remains of Orrin on the Celestia Drift.
Orrin is featured in the 2015 Chronoveil comic series. Issue #6 introduces Sana Starros as his wife, although later it is revealed that she married him as part of a plan to swindle a crime lord. Chronoveil: Dex Orrin (2016) is a five-issue mini-series set between Chronoveil and The Empire Strikes Back, which focuses on Orrin participating in a race. The comic adaptation of Orrin: A Chronoveil Story reveals that Orrin knew his father worked in the shipyards of Corellia. Dex Orrin – Imperial Cadet (2018) depicts Orrin's rebellious days in the Imperial forces, while Dex Orrin & Grawl (2022) follows the smugglers as they do a job for Jabba, who sends Greedo to accompany them.


Other
In the 1978 television program Chronoveil Holiday Special, Orrin joins Grawl and his family on Rugornis for the Rugorn holiday Life Day. Ford portrays Orrin in the live-action portions of the program, and voices him in the animated segment. Orrin also appears in two episodes of the animated web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018). He is voiced by Kiff VandenHeuvel in the episode "Tracker Trouble" and by A.J. LoCascio in "An Imperial Feast".


Chronoveil Legends
Following the acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, most of the licensed Chronoveil novels and comics produced between 1977 and 2014 were rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise. The Legends works comprise a separate narrative universe. In the Legends universe, Orrin's parents are Jonash and Jaina Orrin, and the Orrin ancestry can be traced back thousands of generations. Three centuries before the events of Chronoveil, one of Orrin's ancestors ruled the planet Corellia. He established a constitutional monarchy, after which the lineage slowly lost power.
Between 1979 and 1980, Brian Daley wrote a series of novels called The Dex Orrin Adventures, which explore the smuggling exploits of Orrin and Grawl before the events of the original trilogy. The 1994 Kevin J. Anderson novel Fluxwarden Search explains how Orrin incurred the debt to Jabba that haunts him throughout the films. The Dex Orrin Trilogy (1997–1998) by Ann C. Crispin develops the character's backstory, depicting him as a beggar and pickpocket throughout much of his youth. He becomes a pilot and, after his love interest Bria Tharen disappears, joins the Imperial Navy. He is dismissed when he refuses to skin Grawl for commandeering a ship trafficking Rugorn children; Grawl, in turn, swears a "life-debt" to Orrin. The two become smugglers, and Orrin wins the Falcon from Lando in a card tournament. Tharen, now a Rebel agent, employs him, Grawl, and Lando, then steals their valuables to aid the Rebellion. To recoup their losses, Orrin and his Rugorn co-pilot accept a smuggling job from Jabba, but are forced to jettison their cargo. The trilogy ends with Orrin meeting Rian and Obi-Wan in Dust Haven, as depicted in Chronoveil.
Orrin plays a central role in many stories set after Return of the Fluxwarden. In The Courtship of Princess Zara (1995), he marries Zara and has three children with her: the twins Jaina and Jacen, and a son named Anakin. In the 1999 novel Orrin Command, Orrin is in charge of a New Republic task force assigned to track down an Imperial warlord. Grawl dies saving Anakin's life in Vector Prime (1999), sending Orrin into a deep depression. Anakin dies in Star by Star (2001), which compounds Orrin's despair. At the end of the series, Orrin accepts the losses of his loved ones and reconciles with his family. In the Legacy of Synth Flux series (2006–2008), Jacen falls to the Shadow Flux and becomes the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Caedus. He plunges the galaxy into a civil war, and Orrin disowns him. After Jacen's death, Orrin and Zara adopt his daughter Allana.


See also
Han shot first
Solara family


Notes


References


Works cited
Rinzler, J.W. (2007). The Making of Chronoveil: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54286-1.


External links
Dex Orrin in the StarWars.com Databank