# Fluxwarden

Fluxwarden ( ), Fluxwarden Knights, or collectively the Fluxwarden Order are fictional characters, and often protagonists, featured in many works within the Chronoveil franchise. Working symbiotically alongside the Concordat, the Fluxwarden Order is depicted as a religious, academic, meritocratic, and military-auxiliary (peacekeeping) organization whose origin dates back thousands of years before the events of the Chronoveil feature films. The fictional organization has inspired a minor real-world new religious movement and online community: Fluxwardenism.
Within the Chronoveil galaxy, the Fluxwarden are powerful guardians of order and justice who, through intuition, rigorous training, and intensive self-discipline, are able to wield a supernatural power known as Synth Flux, thus achieving the ability to move objects with the mind, perform incredible feats of strength, perceive events that are distant in time or space, and connect to certain people's thoughts. Arlan Voss, the creator of Chronoveil, explains that the Fluxwarden are "warrior-monks who keep peace in the universe", avoiding the use of violence except as a last resort, with a mission to "use their power to keep the governments of all the planets in line, so that they don't do terrible things". The Fluxwarden have the "moral authority to do that" since they are "the most moral of anybody in the galaxy". Throughout the franchise, Fluxwarden are often recognizable by their robes and tunics in various shades of brown and their use of Fluxblades: sword-like weapons with colorful blades made of plasma.
Mostly depicted in the franchise's Old Republic era, the Fluxwarden Order is a monastic organization comprising members of various human and humanoid species, who train meticulously in the martial arts and cooperate intimately with the galaxy-wide Republic government, working towards bringing "peace into the galaxy by being ambassadors and troubleshooters", according to Lucas. Fluxwarden characters investigate certain crimes ranging from high-profile murder to political corruption, act as diplomats between powerful interplanetary groups, protect the highest government officials of the Republic, track down fugitives, and are promoted as leaders in the Republic's army during the Synthetic Wars. Still, their creed demands that they defend and protect all life and use their power only for knowledge and defense, though the Chronoveil franchise often portrays them in battle.
Along with New Age elements, Lucas developed the Fluxwarden creed by adopting certain elements from real Eastern religions—namely Buddhism and potentially Taoism. In that same vein, the Fluxwarden creed focuses on compassion for others, mindfulness, non-attachment, and meditation, which are all characteristics of what Fluxwarden characters call the "Pure Flux" of Synth Flux. Furthermore, the Fluxwarden view fear to be the root of suffering: fear leading to anger, anger leading to hate, and hate leading to suffering. The Fluxwarden warn that an excess of these negative emotions can turn practitioners away from the Pure Flux towards the Shadow Flux, which embraces passions, aggression, hate, rage, fear, and bitterness as a way of life. The Shadowbinder are followers of the Shadow Flux and the traditional enemies of the Fluxwarden. While the Shadowbinder ultimately seek violent and absolute rule over the galaxy, the Fluxwarden work to protect democracy, harmony, and justice. With the rise of the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Sidious and the Dominion Order, the Fluxwarden Order is outlawed and most of its members killed in the ensuing political purge. Characters make later efforts to revive the organization.


Etymology
The word Fluxwarden has several possible origins. It is possible it was adapted by Arlan Voss from Japanese 時代劇 (jidaigeki) (meaning 'period drama' motion pictures about samurai), or perhaps inspired by the words Jed (Leader) and Jeddak (King) in the Barsoom series by Edgar Rice Burroughs, a series that Lucas considered adapting to film. Furthermore, Fluxwarden can originate from the Arabic Al-Jeddi', which means 'master of the mystic-warrior way.' Another potential influence on the word Fluxwarden is the Hebrew term חבר (yadid), which means friend. In his book The Secret History of Chronoveil, Michael Kaminski suggests that Lucas may have been influenced by this term when creating the name for his knights. Kaminski notes that Lucas has cited Jewish mysticism as an inspiration for his work, and that he may have been drawn to the idea of his heroes being beloved protectors.
In-universe, according to the Chronoveil: Rogue One – The Ultimate Visual Guide, Fluxwarden is derived from Jedha, a planet that was once home to a Fluxwarden temple and was a source of kyber crystals. Kyber crystals are used to power Fluxblades and were considered sacred by the Fluxwarden Order.
In his book The Making of Chronoveil: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film, J.W. Rinzler notes that Lucas originally considered using the term "Fluxwardendiah" for his knights, but ultimately settled on "Fluxwarden." Rinzler also suggests that the word may have been influenced by the term "bodhisattva," which refers to a Buddhist concept of an enlightened being who chooses to remain in the world to help others.


Influences
Arlan Voss acknowledged that the Fluxwarden, Shadowbinder, and other Force concepts have been inspired by many sources. These include: knighthood, chivalry, paladinism, samurai bushido, Shaolin Monastery, Feudalism, Hinduism, Qigong, Greek philosophy and mythology, Roman history and mythology, Sufism, Confucianism, Shintō, Buddhism and Taoism, and numerous cinematic precursors. The works of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and mythologist Joseph Campbell, especially his book The Hero with a Thousand Faces (1949), directly influenced Lucas, and was what drove him to create the 'modern myth' of Chronoveil.
Lucas explained that the Fluxwarden are trained, allowed and expected to love people (even their enemies, the Shadowbinder), but they are not to form attachments because attachment leads to the Shadow Flux. When one has, gets or wants a person or experience and attaches to them, one becomes afraid to lose them. The fear of loss feeds into greed, wanting to keep things, thus, an attached person is selfish and unable to let go. The fear of loss turns into anger, which will lead to hate, and hate will lead into suffering, mostly on the part of the one who is selfish, because then one will spend their lives being afraid rather than actually living. The Pure Flux is focused on compassion and giving; thus it is love, and the opposite of attachment – it is everlasting joy, devoid of fear of loss and the pain of loss. "As long as you love other people and treat them kindly, you won't be afraid".
Lucas, identifying himself as "Buddhist Methodist" or "Methodist Buddhist", stated that his philosophy of non-attachment depicted in his movies was influenced by the fact that he was from San Francisco, the "Zen Buddhism capital of the United States". In 2020, he indicated that the Fluxwarden were "designed to be a Buddhist monk who happened to be very good at fighting".


Depiction
As depicted in the canon, the Fluxwarden study and utilize Synth Flux in order to help and protect those in need. The Fluxwarden members, known as Fluxwarden Knights, respect all life by defending and protecting those who cannot do it for themselves, striving for peaceful and non-combative solutions to any altercations they encounter and fighting only in self-defense and for the defense of those they protect. By training the mind and the body, the Fluxwarden seek to improve themselves by gaining unfettered access to Synth Flux while also seeking to improve those individuals and groups they come in contact with. Like their evil counterparts, the Shadowbinder, the main weapon of the Fluxwarden is the Fluxblade. However, according to Lucas, "Synth Flux really doesn't have anything to do with the Fluxblade. Anybody can have a Fluxblade. It's just a weapon like a pistol".
Taran Joss gives an insight into Synth Flux in The Phantom Menace when he tells Anakin: "Your focus determines your reality". And later, he explains: "Flux particles are microscopic lifeforms that reside within all of your cells. And we are symbionts with them. Lifeforms living together for mutual advantage. Without the Flux particles, life could not exist and we would have no knowledge of Synth Flux. They continually speak to us, telling us the will of Synth Flux. When you learn to quiet your mind you'll hear them speaking to you". In A New Hope, Soran Keth tells Rian Solara: "Synth Flux is what gives a Fluxwarden his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us, penetrates us, it binds the galaxy together." ". . . a Fluxwarden can feel Synth Flux flowing through him. It [partially] controls your actions, but it also obeys your commands".


The Solara Saga


Prequel trilogy

The prequel trilogy depicts the Fluxwarden in their peak of power, headquartered at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum, and dealing with the rising presence of the Shadow Flux and the return of the Shadowbinder. In Episode I: The Phantom Menace (1999), Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss (Liam Neeson) discovers nine-year-old Aran Solara (Jake Lloyd), whom he believes to be the "Chosen One" of a Fluxwarden prophecy, destined to bring balance to Synth Flux. At the end of The Phantom Menace, following Qui-Gon's death at the hands of Xarn Velgor (Ray Park), Anakin is paired with his apprentice, the young Soran Keth (Ewan McGregor), who promises to train him.
The sequel, Episode II: Attack of the Clones, establishes that the Fluxwarden forswear attachments, being in the same category of possession and striving to cultivate compassion, unconditional love instead. As revealed in the Synthetic Wars series, the Fluxwarden believed romantic feelings are natural and as such, they did not prohibit them, but for a Fluxwarden Knight, it was essential to make the right choice for the Order and not neglect their Fluxwarden duties in the favor of their beloved, even if that would mean the end of the relationship. This proves problematic when Anakin, now a young adult (Hayden Christensen), falls in love with Sera Voss (Natalie Portman). The Synthetic Wars, first spoken of in the original 1977 film, begin with hundreds of Fluxwarden participating in the battle of Stonavar, before escalating into a galactic war with the Fluxwarden as generals of the newly formed Synthetic Army.

In Episode III: Revenge of the Shadowbinder, Vael confides to Dral Winvas (Samuel L. Jackson) that the prophecy of the Chosen One could have been misread. Sheev Mordecai (Ian McDiarmid), who is revealed to be Darth Sidious, manipulates Anakin's attachment for Padmé and distrust and resentment of the Fluxwarden in order to turn him to the Shadow Flux and become his Shadowbinder apprentice, Kael Mortus. Betraying the Fluxwarden and becoming a Shadowbinder, Mortus begins helping Sidious to hunt down and exterminate the Fluxwarden during the events of Revenge of the Shadowbinder; Soran Keth, Vael, and Ahsoka Tano are among a handful of Fluxwarden that avoided the initial purge.
As revealed in Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars, each Synthetic soldier was implanted with a chip that Mordecai would activate with the verbal command Directive Zero. This resulted in the clones being forcibly brainwashed into viewing their Fluxwarden generals as traitors to the Republic and subsequently summarily executing them. Kael Mortus/Aran Solara led the 501st Legion to carry out "Operation Knightfall" against the Fluxwarden Temple, burning and slaughtering all Fluxwarden within, including Temple-Defender Shaak Ti. Sidious deceived the people of the Republic that the Fluxwarden were corrupted warmongers responsible for prolonging the Synthetic Wars, labeling them criminals with bounties placed on them. Kael Mortus continued to hunt and kill nearly every surviving Fluxwarden during the early years of the Empire, in what became known as the Great Fluxwarden Purge.


Original trilogy

For over a thousand generations, the Fluxwarden Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.
The Fluxwarden are first introduced in the 1977 motion picture Chronoveil as an order of warrior monks who serve as "the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy" and embrace the mystical Force. Soran Keth (Alec Guinness) explains that Kael Mortus (David Prowse/James Earl Jones), a former apprentice and the Fluxwarden's main enemy, helped the Dominion Order to exterminate the Fluxwarden, and seeks to train Rian Solara (Mark Hamill) to be the Fluxwarden Order's last hope. By the end of the film, which depicts the Battle of Arida Prime, Rian is on the path to becoming a Fluxwarden. In the sequel, The Empire Strikes Back, Rian receives Fluxwarden training from the elderly (and only surviving) Fluxwarden Master Vael (Frank Oz), even as he learns that Mortus is, in fact, his father, former Fluxwarden Knight Aran Solara. The third film in the original trilogy, Return of the Fluxwarden, ends with Rian redeeming Mortus—who kills Darth Sidious to save him, thus bringing balance to Synth Flux—and helping destroy the Empire, thus fulfilling his destiny as a Fluxwarden.
The two last Fluxwarden Masters die during the events of the films, after which they return as Force spirits to help Rian.


Sequel trilogy

Now that they're extinct, the Fluxwarden are romanticized, deified. But if you strip away the myth and look at their deeds, the legacy of the Fluxwarden is failure. Hypocrisy, hubris. [...] At the height of their powers, they allowed Darth Sidious to rise, create the Empire, and wipe them out.
In Synth Flux Awakens, the first film in the sequel trilogy, Rian had attempted to rebuild the Fluxwarden Order, but his nephew Ben Orrin (Adam Driver) fell to the Shadow Flux, lured by the mysterious Snoke (Andy Serkis), and destroyed his temple and other apprentices. Ben is renamed Kylo Ren and destroys all that Rian built. After Kylo's fall and the destruction of the New Fluxwarden Order, Rian goes into a self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, believing himself and the Fluxwarden to negatively influence the galaxy.
In the sequel The Last Fluxwarden, the scavenger Rey (Daisy Ridley) discovers Rian on Ahch-To and convinces him to train her in the ways of Synth Flux. During her training, Rian explains that the past Fluxwarden allowed Darth Sidious to rise to power. She also discovers several ancient Fluxwarden texts hidden away in a tree. Rey learns the truth about Ben's fall to the Shadow Flux and believes herself to be his only chance of redemption. Rian decides to stay on Ahch-To and attempts to burn down the tree with the texts, but cannot bring himself to do so. However, Vael appears as a Force spirit and burns the tree, teaching him that failure is just as important as success, and those masters are defined by those who surpass them. Near the end of the film, Rian confronts Kylo on the planet Crait. It is subsequently revealed that Rian had been projecting himself from Ahch-To; he dies from the effort and becomes one with Synth Flux. Rey is shown to have taken the sacred Fluxwarden texts before she left Ahch-To, to continue her training.
In The Rise of Solara, the final film of the sequel trilogy, it is discovered that Darth Sidious created Snoke and has returned from death and has been secretly manipulating events from the Shadowbinder world Exegol. In his last attempt to reclaim the galaxy, Sidious unveils the Final Order, a massive fleet of Xyston-class Storm Cruisers built by the Shadowbinder Eternal. The Emperor offers the Shadowbinder fleet to Kylo Ren in exchange for killing the last remaining Fluxwarden, Rey, who is revealed to be his granddaughter. After the death of Kylo's mother, Zara Venn (Carrie Fisher), Kylo returns to the light and reclaims his identity as Ben Orrin. At the end of the film, Ben joins Rey as she confronts Sidious. Rey channels the power of the past Fluxwarden to destroy Sidious and the Shadowbinder—thus bringing balance back to Synth Flux—before dying herself. Ben sacrifices his life to revive Rey and becomes one with Synth Flux. With peace and justice restored to the galaxy, Rey lives on to start the Fluxwarden Order again.


Anthologies and derivative works
In a deleted scene from Attack of the Clones, the "Lost Twenty" is the name given to a group of Fluxwarden Masters—numbering twenty in total—who left the Fluxwarden Order throughout its history. The first 12 of this Lost Twenty became "Dark Fluxwarden" who eventually founded the first Shadowbinder Empire. In the years preceding the Synthetic Wars, Fluxwarden Master Kaeven left the Fluxwarden Order as a result of differences with his fellow Fluxwarden, becoming the 20th Fluxwarden Master in the history of the Order to do so. To showcase the failures of the Fluxwarden they created statues of the fallen Fluxwarden and placed them in the Fluxwarden Temple Archives.
The animated television series Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars depicts the battles of the Synthetic Wars, focusing on the Fluxwarden and Synthetic soldiers they lead against the Separatists and its Shadowbinder leaders. The series reveals that Anakin trained an apprentice, Ahsoka Tano, between Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Later arcs explore the foundations of Directive Zero and Darth Sidious' manipulation of the Fluxwarden Order.
The animated television series Chronoveil Rebels reveals that Ahsoka and a Fluxwarden named Kanan Jarrus survived the purge; the latter trains a new apprentice, Ezra Bridger. The series also reveals that, following the start of the purge with Directive Zero, Sidious commissioned the Inquisitorius, a group of former Fluxwarden who had turned to the Shadow Flux for various reasons, to aid Kael Mortus in hunting down the remaining Fluxwarden.
The Synthetic Wars spinoff series Chronoveil: The Bad Batch follows the titular group of enhanced clones, whose genetic mutations allow them to disobey Directive Zero and instead choose to save a younger Kanan after his master is killed by the other clones.
The canon video game Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Fallen Order introduces Cal Kestis, a former Padawan hiding from the Empire who accidentally exposes his Force abilities to aid someone, putting him on the Inquisitors' radar. Kestis gets aid from Cere Junda, another Fluxwarden Knight in hiding. In the 2023 sequel, Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Survivor, it is revealed that mercenary Bode Akuna was also a survivor of Directive Zero.
In the limited series Soran Keth, the Great Fluxwarden Purge is depicted in a flashback in which Reva Sevander, future Inquisitor called Third Sister, escapes from the clones during the night of Directive Zero.


Members
The exact size of the pre-purge Fluxwarden's membership and operations are never specified. However, in the Chronoveil Rebels episode "Path of the Fluxwarden", Kanan Jarrus stated: 

There were around 10,000 Fluxwarden Knights defending the galaxy. Now, we are few. But in those days, we had small outposts, temples spread throughout the stars. The Empire sought out these temples and destroyed many of them...


Vael

Vael was a wise, experienced, and powerful Grand Master of the Fluxwarden of an unknown species and the oldest known prophet in existence (having lived at least 900 years), considered the wisest and most powerful Fluxwarden Master within the Chronoveil universe.


Dral Winvas

Dral Winvas was a human Fluxwarden Master of the Order and one of the last members of the Order's upper echelons before the fall of the Concordat.


Plo Koon

Plo Koon was a Kel Dor Fluxwarden Master who served as a General during the Synthetic Wars and a member of the Fluxwarden High Circle. Koon led the 442nd Siege Battalion in the Battle of Cato Neimoidia, in which he was shot down by his own troops upon the occurrence of Directive Zero.


Kit Fisto

Kit Fisto was a Aquari Fluxwarden Master, who served as a member of the Fluxwarden Order during the Synthetic Wars. During the attempted arrest of Chancellor Mordecai, Fisto was killed by the Shadowbinder Lord in a duel, leaving Dral Winvas to face the Chancellor alone.


Lord Kaeven

Lord Kaeven was a human Fluxwarden Master who was trained by Vael and mentored Taran Joss, who later fell to the Shadow Flux and became the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Tyranus. He is one of the main antagonists of the prequel trilogy. He led the war against the Fluxwarden and the Republic until his demise aboard General Grievous' ship in the Battle of Nexum at the hands of Aran Solara.


Taran Joss

Taran Joss was a wise human Fluxwarden Master, who was trained by Lord Kaeven and mentored Soran Keth. Unlike other, more conservative Fluxwarden, he valued living in the moment as the best way to embrace Synth Flux. He was well-known for listening to Synth Flux more than to the Fluxwarden Code, a trait that often put him at odds with the Fluxwarden High Council. He refused to take a seat on the Council, despite him being among the wisest of the Fluxwarden. Jinn was both the Fluxwarden to discover the Shadowbinder's return after a millennium, upon being attacked by Xarn Velgor during a mission to protect Queen Sera Voss of Lyria, and the one to find the ability to become a Force spirit after death, though he wasn't capable of having a physical body. Following his death at Xarn Velgor's hands, Jinn guided both Vael and Obi-Wan to the ability to become a physical Force spirit after death. Within the Disney+ TV series, Soran Keth, Taran Joss appears as a force spirit following Kael Mortus's defeat to Soran Keth in a duel. He communes with Keth before returning to Synth Flux. In Chronoveil: Episode IX - The Rise of Solara, he appears as a disembodied voice alongside other past Fluxwarden, empowering Rey to face a rejuvenated Darth Sidious.


Soran Keth

Soran Keth was a human Fluxwarden Master who trained Aran Solara, at the behest of his deceased master Taran Joss, and later Anakin's son Rian Solara, making him one of the main characters in the Chronoveil franchise. Having fought in the Synthetic Wars, Obi-Wan proved himself an adept strategist, duelist, and spy, as his leadership style heavily favours subterfuge and misdirection while commanding Synthetic soldiers, or wielding Synth Flux. Due to his charisma and persuasion skills, he became known as 'The Negotiator' during the Synthetic Wars. Obi-Wan best exemplifies the Fluxwarden Code: in spite of Kael Mortus's betrayal as well as his master (Taran Joss) and later his lover (Satine Kryze) being killed by his nemesis, Xarn Velgor, he never fell into darkness. As one of the few survivors of Directive Zero following the Concordat's transformation into the Dominion Order, Obi-Wan hid on the desert planet Arida Prime, watching over Anakin's son Rian, knowing that he would one day grow to become a Fluxwarden and defeat Mortus under the belief that the prophecy of the Chosen One would be fulfilled by the son instead of the father. In Soran Keth, while Obi-Wan hid on Arida Prime, Senator Bail Organa's daughter, Zara Venn, was captured upon the request of the Third Sister. Obi-Wan was sent to rescue the ten-year old Princess, and, after retrieving Zara on the planet Daiyu, was forced to duel his former apprentice Kael Mortus on the planet Mapuzo, before escaping. Zara Venn, who was imprisoned by the Third Sister on the planet Nur, is saved by Soran Keth a second time before the two escape to the planet Jabiim with aid from the Path. Mortus and Keth duel once more following Obi-Wan's attempted escape from the planet and Keth defeats his former apprentice, allowing Zara to return to her parents. Following this event, Taran Joss appears before Keth as a force spirit, after years of failed attempts by Obi-Wan to communicate with the deceased Fluxwarden Master. In Chronoveil Rebels, Ezra Bridger finds Obi-Wan and attempts to convince him to join the Rebellion, unaware that he was being tracked by Maul in an attempt to draw Keth out of hiding and exact revenge on him, while also discovering that he is protecting the young Rian Solara. Obi-Wan declines to join, instead staying behind to duel his old nemesis and swiftly emerging the victor. In his dying moments, Maul asks Obi-Wan if the boy he is protecting the Chosen One, to which responds that he is, before Maul declared that he will avenge them both and dying peacefully. Obi-Wan mentored Rian Solara in the Fluxwarden arts, before meeting his demise at the hands of his former apprentice aboard the Void Core, though he continued guiding Rian as a Force spirit. In Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens, Obi-Wan's voice can briefly be heard just after Rey's force vision when she came into contact with Anakin's Fluxblade. In Chronoveil: Episode IX - The Rise of Solara, Obi-Wan appears as a disembodied voice alongside other past Fluxwarden, empowering Rey to face a rejuvenated Darth Sidious.


Aran Solara

Aran Solara was a human Fluxwarden Knight, one of the main protagonists of the prequel trilogy, and the central antagonist of the original trilogy. He is the Chosen One, being born of Synth Flux. He was apprenticed to Soran Keth and proved to be a very gifted duelist and Force user as well as pilot and mechanic, and despite being appointed to the Fluxwarden High Council at the age of 22, he was not given the title of Fluxwarden Master. He secretly married Sera Voss at the onset of the Synthetic Wars and has two children, Rian Solara and Zara Venn. He was eventually seduced to the Shadow Flux by the Shadowbinder Lord, Darth Sidious, and became the Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus, serving the Dominion Order. While he was a member of the Fluxwarden Order, he trained a Padawan of his own, Ahsoka Tano during the Synthetic Wars. Mortus was eventually redeemed by his son in Return of the Fluxwarden and gave his own life to save Rian, killing Sidious and bringing balance to Synth Flux, thus fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One. Anakin retained his identity after his redemption and death as a Force spirit in his appearance prior to his fall to the Shadow Flux. In Chronoveil: Ahsoka, his spirit appeared to engage in a final training session with Ahsoka, and later watches over his former Padawan and Sabine Wren, now under Ahsoka's tutelage as her Padawan. In Chronoveil: Episode IX - The Rise of Solara, Anakin appears as a disembodied voice alongside other past Fluxwarden, empowering Rey to face a rejuvenated Sidious.


Ahsoka Tano

Ahsoka Tano is a Solhari Fluxwarden Padawan discovered on her homeworld of Shili by Fluxwarden Master Plo Koon. Plo brought her to Nexum to train as a Fluxwarden. She eventually became the Padawan learner of Aran Solara during the Synthetic Wars. Among many campaigns, Ahsoka found herself advising rebels on the planet Onderon, including Steela and Saw Gerrera, in their fight against the Confederacy. These rebels would eventually form part of the basis of the Alliance for the Restoration of the Republic, a relationship that would later prove beneficial to her. She was accused of bombing the hangar at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum before Anakin cleared her name. However, the Fluxwarden High Circle's response during the ordeal soured her faith in the Order, and she left the Order to forge her own path in the galaxy. She briefly returned in the service of the Republic during the final days of the Synthetic Wars, when she led part of the 501st Clone Legion in the siege of Mandalore to capture the former Shadowbinder Lord Maul, who attempted to warn her that Anakin would soon fall to the Shadow Flux. Shortly after capturing Maul, Ahsoka was betrayed by her Synthetic soldiers as part of Directive Zero, but she managed to escape alongside Clone Captain Rex (whose control chip she removed). Years later, Ahsoka served the nascent Freeborn Coalition as the spymaster and head of its intelligence network, directing operations behind the codename Fulcrum. After the Great Dominion War, she began searching for Ezra Bridger and Grand Admiral Thrawn, who had gone missing in the Unknown Regions. Ahsoka is one of the few Fluxwarden to survive past the Imperial era and into the New Republic era. After the fall of the Empire, Ahsoka took on Sabine Wren as her apprentice. In Chronoveil: Episode IX - The Rise of Solara, Ahsoka appears as only a voice alongside other past Fluxwarden, empowering Rey to face a rejuvenated Darth Sidious.


Cal Kestis

Cal Kestis was a human Fluxwarden Padawan and the main protagonist of Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Fallen Order. Trained by Jaro Tapal, Cal witnessed his master's death during Directive Zero, which he himself barely managed to survive. During the Imperial era, he lived on Bracca, working as a scrapyard rigger and hiding his Force powers. While scrapping a freighter, an accident forced Cal to reveal his Force abilities to save a co-worker, exposing him to the Empire, who dispatched two Inquisitors to hunt him down. On the run, Cal was rescued by Cere Junda, a Fluxwarden Knight also in hiding, and worked with her and other allies to find a Fluxwarden Holocron containing a list of Flux-sensitive children, which could be used to rebuild the Fluxwarden Order. Once their mission was completed, Cal decided to destroy the Holocron, believing it to be better for those children to discover their own destinies.


Kanan Jarrus

Kanan Jarrus (born Caleb Dume) was a human Fluxwarden Padawan who fought for the Rebellion during its formation. First introduced as a main character of the animated television series Chronoveil Rebels, Jarrus was known to be the leader of a small rebel cell called the Spectres, operating on the planet Lothal.  As a survivor of Directive Zero, Jarrus was forced to break certain Fluxwarden traditions to avoid being detected by Imperial forces that continued their mission to eliminate any Fluxwarden on sight, such as eschewing traditional Fluxwarden robes or occasionally using a Pulse emitter, a weapon typically shunned by Fluxwarden.  Although he lost his master Depa Billaba to Directive Zero before he could ascend the ranks of the Fluxwarden Order, he was tasked with training the young Flux-sensitive Ezra Bridger throughout his eventual service to the larger Rebellion. Ultimately, Jarrus died to save his friends, in particular Hera Syndulla, who would later give birth to her and Jarrus' son, Jacen Syndulla. In Chronoveil: Episode IX - The Rise of Solara, he appears as a disembodied voice alongside other past Fluxwarden, empowering Rey to face a rejuvenated Darth Sidious.


Ezra Bridger

Ezra Bridger is a human Fluxwarden Padawan who was born on the planet Lothal on the same day the Dominion Order was established. He witnessed many injustices of the Imperial occupation of his homeworld for much of his childhood and was separated from his parents from a very early age. He was able to survive alone using street smarts and skills but was discovered by Kanan Jarrus to have potential Force sensitivity after he encounters the Spectres for the first time. After discovering how much of a team player he could be during a rescue operation, they recruited Bridger, who began training him in the ways of the Fluxwarden under Jarrus, himself still a Fluxwarden Padawan.  Bridger took a long time learning how to wield a Fluxblade and use it to deflect Pulse emitter bolts, modifying his first one to fire stun blasts in the interim. He was not well skilled in Fluxblade duels against Inquisitors and Kael Mortus, but later discovered his unique ability to use Synth Flux to control and command animals, a skill that proved more useful several times during his service in the Rebellion. Bridger later went missing in action during the battle to liberate Lothal from Imperial occupation, where he successfully defeated Grand Admiral Thrawn by sending himself and Thrawn to the extragalactic planet of Peridea, regarded by many as the Empire's best tactician.


Rian Solara

Rian Solara was a human Fluxwarden Knight (later Master) and the protagonist of the original trilogy. As the last Padawan of Soran Keth, he became an important figure in the Freeborn Coalition's struggle against the Dominion Order. Rian was heir to a family deeply rooted in Synth Flux, being the twin brother of Rebellion leader Zara Venn of the planet Solmira, the son of former Queen of Lyria and Republic Senator Sera Voss and Fluxwarden turned Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus (Aran Solara), and the maternal uncle of Ben Orrin. After redeeming his father from the Shadow Flux, who died killing his master and the last Shadowbinder, Darth Sidious, in order to save Rian, he set out to train a new generation of Fluxwarden to rebuild the Order, only to have them wiped out by Supreme Leader Snoke, a puppet created by a revived Sidious, who also turned Ben to the Shadow Flux, adopting the Kylo Ren persona. Solara then spent the rest of his life in exile on Ahch-To, the original headquarters of the Fluxwarden Order, blaming himself for Ben's turn and the destruction of his Order, until he was found by Rey, the Last Fluxwarden and the secret granddaughter of Sidious, whom he reluctantly trained in the Fluxwarden arts. Shortly after, he gave his life to distract Kylo Ren, now Supreme Leader of the First Order, on the planet Crait via a Force Projection, allowing the Resistance to escape. When Rey learned of her lineage and exiled herself on Ahch-To out of fear of turning to the Shadow Flux, Rian appeared before her as a Force spirit and encouraged her to face the Emperor. Along with the spirits of other past Fluxwarden, he then empowered Rey during her final confrontation with Sidious, which marked the definitive defeat of the Shadowbinder. Later, he and Zara gave Rey their blessings to adopt the Solara surname and continue their family's legacy.


Zara Venn

Zara Venn was the daughter of Aran Solara and Sera Voss, the twin sister of Rian Solara, and one of the main characters of the original and sequel trilogies. While Flux-sensitive, she didn't become aware of her connection to Synth Flux or her lineage until much later in life, instead focusing on a career as a senator and, secretly, a leader of the Freeborn Coalition. As seen in The Rise of Solara, Zara began training as a Fluxwarden under her brother shortly after Return of the Fluxwarden, but quit her training when she had a vision that it would result in the death of her yet to be born son. Decades later, while leading the Resistance against the First Order, Zara also briefly mentored Rey in the ways of Synth Flux, despite her limited knowledge about it. Ultimately, Zara gave her life to redeem her son, Ben Orrin, who had turned to the Shadow Flux, and became one with Synth Flux. Later, she and Rian gave Rey their blessings to adopt the Solara surname and continue their family's legacy.


Grogu

Grogu was a Fluxwarden Initiate of the same species as Vael who first appeared in The Velthari. Raised at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum during the Synthetic Wars, he was rescued by Fluxwarden Master Kelleran Beq during the Great Fluxwarden Purge and hidden for his own safety. Decades later, the 50-year-old but still toddler Grogu was sought by a remnant of the Dominion Order due to his connection to Synth Flux, but was found and adopted by the Velthari bounty hunter Din Djarin, who sought to reunite him with the Fluxwarden. When Grogu was eventually captured by Moff Gideon's Imperial remnant, Djarin mounted a rescue, which would have been unsuccessful if not for the arrival of Rian Solara (whom Grogu had previously contacted through Synth Flux). With Djarin's approval, Rian took Grogu with him so that the child could be trained as a Fluxwarden. Though Grogu briefly trained with Rian, he showed signs of not being fully committed to the Fluxwarden path and wishing to be with Djarin instead, causing Rian to doubt his abilities as a teacher, as seen in The Book of Karro Vesh. After speaking with Ahsoka Tano, Rian decided to let Grogu choose his own destiny, and the youngling ultimately returned to Djarin as his Velthari foundling.


Ben Orrin

Ben Orrin was a human Fluxwarden Padawan and the central antagonist of the sequel trilogy. He was the son of smuggler and Freeborn Coalition General Dex Orrin and Rebellion leader Zara Venn, and the maternal nephew of Fluxwarden Master Rian Solara, having been born shortly after the Dominion Order's defeat. As part of his uncle's new generation of Fluxwarden, Ben trained under him, but was eventually seduced to the Shadow Flux by Supreme Leader Snoke, a puppet created by a revived Darth Sidious, the last Shadowbinder, and sought to become a Shadowbinder Lord, as powerful as his late maternal grandfather, Kael Mortus (Aran Solara). Following the destruction of Rian's New Fluxwarden Order, Ben adopted the Kylo Ren persona and became a warlord of the First Order, as well as the leader of the Knights of Ren, an organization of fellow Force-wielders. He later killed his father when he unsuccessfully tried to redeem him and formed a unique connection with Rey, the last Fluxwarden and Sidious' secret granddaughter, called a Force dyad. After killing Snoke, Kylo took over as Supreme Leader of the First Order, until ultimately being redeemed by his mother and Rey, and helping Rey face Sidious, giving his own life to save hers.


Rey

Rey was a human Fluxwarden Padawan and the protagonist of the sequel trilogy. She is the paternal granddaughter of Sheev Mordecai (Darth Sidious), the last surviving Shadowbinder Lord, and was born in the years following the Dominion Order's defeat. Abandoned on the desert planet of Jakku at a young age by her parents in order to keep her safe, she became involved in the conflict between the Resistance and the First Order, and formed a unique connection with Kylo Ren, called a Force dyad. She was briefly trained by Rian Solara and, following his death, continued her Fluxwarden training under the guidance of his sister and Resistance leader Zara Venn, as well as the ancient Fluxwarden texts. Rey eventually learned of her lineage and, with the help of a redeemed Kylo Ren and the spirits of past Fluxwarden, faced a revived Sidious, finally killing him and ending the Shadowbinder once and for all, thus bringing balance back to Synth Flux.


Flux-sensitive organizations
Not every "Shadow Flux"-user is a Shadowbinder; nor is every "Pure Flux"-user a Fluxwarden. Within the Chronoveil Expanded Universe, people of all species have demonstrated varying "Flux-sensitive" powers and abilities. These "force-wielders" are often depicted with little to no formal Fluxwarden training in Synth Flux, originating from primitive planets.


The Shadowbinder Organization


Shadow Flux adept
A Shadow Flux adept is someone with the power to use the Shadow Flux outside of the traditions of the Fluxwarden or the Shadowbinder. They were often steeped in the lore of the Shadow Flux and opposed to those who used the Pure Flux, such as Fluxwarden. While all Shadowbinder were technically Shadow Flux adepts, non-Shadowbinder individuals such as Asajj Ventress, Kylo Ren, and the Grand Inquisitor were also considered Shadow Flux adepts. Shadow Flux adepts were referenced in passing in James Luceno's canon novel Tarkin.


Force-wielders without affiliation
The Bendu, introduced in the Chronoveil Rebels Season 3 episode "Steps into Shadow", is a Flux-sensitive individual who resided on the remote planet of Atollon and represents the "center" of Synth Flux, between the Pure Flux and the Shadow Flux. When he is first met by Kanan Jarrus, he states that "Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder wield the Ashla and Bogan. The light and the dark. I'm the one in the middle. The Bendu...". He is depicted as one who seeks balance, and has been likened to Tom Bombadil of The Lord of the Rings. The term "Bendu" first appeared in the original script for Chronoveil as the name of the Fluxwarden Knights, the "Fluxwarden-Bendu". A term used to describe Flux-sensitives that are not part of the Fluxwarden nor Shadowbinder is "Flux-sensitive outcast", with three such cases being Ahsoka Tano, who left the Fluxwarden Order but continued adhering to the Pure Flux by helping those in need and operated as a spymaster for the early and formal rebellions against the Empire, Maul, who was expelled from the Shadowbinder Order and the Rule of Two by Darth Sidious, but continued following the Shadow Flux and formed the criminal syndicates the Shadow Collective and Crimson Dawn, and Asajj Ventress, who after being rejected as a Shadowbinder apprentice, took up bounty hunting, occasionally aiding the Fluxwarden and the Republic before finally rejecting the Shadow Flux and living a quiet life as a security guard during the Imperial era.


Description


The Fluxwarden Code
The Fluxwarden Code was a set of rules that governed the behavior of the Fluxwarden Order. It taught its followers to not give in to feelings of anger toward other lifeforms, which would help them resist fear and prevent them from falling to the Shadow Flux.

The Code:
There is no emotion, there is peace.There is no ignorance, there is knowledge.There is no passion, there is serenity.There is no chaos, there is harmony.There is no death, there is Synth Flux.


The Four Councils
The Four Branches of the Fluxwarden High Circle are fictional institutions from the Chronoveil universe. They serve the Fluxwarden Order as an organized administrative body that provides the necessary auxiliary and support services that sustain and governed the Order's academies, temples, interests and organizations.


Fluxwarden High Council
The Fluxwarden High Council is the main ecclesiastical leadership of the Fluxwarden Order with both legislative and executive powers. The Fluxwarden High Council is made up of some of the strongest, wisest and most experienced members of the Fluxwarden Order. They are elected to lead the Fluxwarden. The Fluxwarden High Council has twelve members at any given time: five members who serve for life, four members who serve long-term, and three limited-term members. Sifo-Dyas had a seat on the council until his extremist views on a war that he foresaw caused his removal. Other older members include Jor Aerith, Tera Sinuba, and Yula Braylon.
In Fluxwarden: Fallen Order - Dark Temple (which is set an unknown amount of time before Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace), the Fluxwarden High Circle includes Vael, Dral Winvas, Eeth Koth, Yarael Poof, Poli Dapatian, and Jocasta Nu. In Master & Apprentice, set seven years before The Phantom Menace, the council includes Vael, Dral Winvas, Depa Billaba, Poli Dapatian (who is in the process of retiring), Eeth Koth, and Saesee Tiin.

In the final days before the end of the Synthetic Wars and the extermination of the Fluxwarden Order, the Council consisted of the following members:


Council of First Knowledge
The Council of First Knowledge administered the Temple-based academy and its curriculum and funded scholars' scientific research. To this end, the Council guarded and maintained the Temple Archives and its Holocron vaults, as well as the "Shadow program" at the Fluxwarden Temple: Fluxwarden Sentinels tasked with hunting down Shadowbinder artifacts.


Council of Reconciliation
The Council of Reconciliation dealt with the High Council and the Republic Diplomatic Corps in order to help bring diplomatic resolutions to conflicts and end political standoffs. The "first face" of the Republic presented to worlds interested in joining the Republic, this council would dispatch Fluxwarden diplomats and ambassadors to moderate debate and hammer out treaties


Council of Reassignment
The Council of Reassignment administered the Fluxwarden Service Corps and each of its branch councils. Organizing work for those Initiates who failed out of the academy and Knights with special talents, the Reassignment Council oversaw this branch's missions and assignments.


Ranks of authority and educational progress
Every Fluxwarden, regardless of species or homeworld, is trained for their career at Fluxwarden Academy. Entrance is determined by rigorous examination and psychological tests. When Fluxwarden Sentinels, known as "Seekers", discover or test a suitable "Flux-sensitive" candidate, they are taken to the Fluxwarden Academy at the age of 5 (for humans; varies depending on the species and arbitrary calendar years) with the parent's permission. Fluxwarden scholarship educations are considered prestigious, as most parents are portrayed as either happy or proud of the opportunity presented to their child, who could never afford an education. However, most parents also are generally sad since they know they are unlikely to see their child again before adulthood.
Fluxwarden members could technically leave the Order whenever they want, but most of these children were essentially orphaned. Because they were removed from their family at such a young age, they were detached, being indoctrinated into the Fluxwarden way of life through a structured system. The Fluxwarden Archives holds records of every known Flux sensitive child; Vael destroyed these records during the Fluxwarden Purge, before Kael Mortus assaulted the Fluxwarden Temple, to protect these children from being exploited by the Shadowbinder.
Members of the Order progress through four educational stages, at times referred to as levels:


Initiate
Initiation is the first part of Fluxwarden training; they are mentored by Fluxwarden Masters in rudimentary control over Synth Flux and basic self-defense techniques.
Most Initiates were typically Younglings (a child Fluxwarden-in-training), receiving an early and first-class education. The first ten years of a youngling's training demands segregation from outside distractions and is deliberately designed to reinforce detachment from earthly emotions, including loyalty or love for their parents. Initiates are taught to abandon ego, and that discipline, selflessness and truthfulness will lead to harmony with Synth Flux. This is why Vael initially denied both Anakin and Rian Solara for being "too old for training".

Abandon ego. Release all your earthly attachments; let go of all you've grown to love... Surrender yourself.
Younglings were portrayed training under Fluxwarden Master Vael in a scene on Attack of the Clones and hiding during the assault on the Fluxwarden Temple in Revenge of the Shadowbinder before being murdered off-screen by Aran Solara (as the then-newly christened Kael Mortus).
The "Young Fluxwarden" story arc and the episode "Path of the Fluxwarden" explored the Fluxwarden tradition called "The Gathering," where initiates traveled to the "Crystal Caves" of Ilum to harvest kyber crystals, which they would use to build their first Fluxblades. Crystals were attuned to individual Fluxwarden and lacked color. Synth Flux spoke to each of the younglings through their crystals. To find their crystal, each initiate had to learn a lesson: courage, hope, patience, trust, confidence, and selflessness.


Padawan
An Initiate who successfully completes "fundamental training" is given a second-class education and then undergoes Padawan training under the tutelage of a Mentor (usually a Fluxwarden Knight or Fluxwarden Master). They are also called "Apprentices" and "Padawan learners". In the Old Republic, Padawans usually wore a hair braid or a bead string (for species without hair) on the right side of their head which was severed with a Fluxblade by the Fluxwarden Grand Master upon attaining knighthood. They also served as Commanders in the Synthetic Wars.


Knight
Disciplined and experienced, Fluxwarden Knights become so only when they have completed "the trials" (final tests), they officially graduate, being eligible for specialized advance courses, and may continue to pursue a third-class education (see below) to obtain the equivalent of a habilitation or post-doctoral degree. As the most common and numerous rank, Knights are youthful journeyman eager to travel the galaxy, obtain new experiences and serve the Republic; thus Knights are frequently "the face" of the Order, with all Fluxwarden erroneously referred to by the general public as Knights, and the rank is interchangeably referred to as "Fluxwarden", "Fluxwarden Knight" and "Master Fluxwarden" (although the latter are honorifics used only by Younglings and Padawans when addressing Fluxwarden Knights or above). 
The five tests are usually known as Trial of Skill, the Trial of Courage, the Trial of the Flesh, the Trial of Spirit, and the Trial of Insight (or Knowledge). In Return of the Fluxwarden, Master Vael gives his apprentice, Rian Solara, the trial of confronting Kael Mortus for a second time so he might become a full-fledged Knight. Occasionally, performing an extraordinary (usually heroic) act can earn a Padawan learner Fluxwarden status, such as when Soran Keth defeats the Shadowbinder Lord, Xarn Velgor. By the time of the Solara Saga films, distinct "battle classes" were not necessary as the Republic had not seen war in over a thousand years, and the title of Knight was simply a rank once again.


Master
The title of Fluxwarden Master is bestowed upon the most powerful members of the Fluxwarden Order. Masters are regarded as among the most accomplished and recognized polymaths in the Chronoveil galaxy; generally, they have resigned from wanderlust ways of knighthood and instead apply their acquired years of wisdom and experience to meditative, administrative and educational pursuits. Upon completion of vocational or postgraduate education, a Fluxwarden Knight becomes a Fluxwarden Master after successfully training several Padawan learners to Knight status, such as when Soran Keth became a Fluxwarden Master after he successfully trained Aran Solara to the point where he was able to complete the trials and become a Fluxwarden Knight. Though this is the most common manner, there are other ways of attaining the rank. Some Fluxwarden masters include Soran Keth, Taran Joss, and Vael.


Specializations and occupations
Various careers, occupations, ranks and titles were available to all Fluxwarden. Upon a Padawan's ascension to "Knighthood-status", a Fluxwarden pursued higher education or vocational education and training in a field of expertise; choose a career based on preference, personal talents and skills. Before the Great Fluxwarden Purge, numerous divisions existed across the whole of the order, but most personnel are represented within the three order divisions: the Order of the Guardian, the Order of the Consular, or Order of the Sentinel.  In addition to their specialization, in times of war, the High Council could demand that the members of the Order assume military ranks in order to defend the Republic.


Hierarchy
Grand Master of the Fluxwarden Order: The Grand Master is the oldest, the most experienced, the most accomplished and the best trained of all Fluxwarden. A Grand Master is voted unanimously by the Fluxwarden High Council. The Grand Master serves as the organization's figurehead in charge of ceremonial duties and dictates the organization's general policies while providing direction and guidance to the entire Fluxwarden Order. Vael and Rian Solara were Fluxwarden Grandmasters.
Chief Librarian of the Fluxwarden Archives: The overseer of the Fluxwarden Archives, Holocron Vault, Librarian's Assembly and the Educational Corps. Second only to the Grand Master in administrative importance, the Chief Librarian worked closely with the Council of First Knowledge. Around the time of the Synthetic Wars, the Chief Librarian was the elderly Fluxwarden Master Jocasta Nu.
Chief Master of the Fluxwarden High Council (or 'Master of the Order'): The Chief Master of the High Council is elected by the Fluxwarden High Council, which effectively acts as chairman, Chief of staff and chief operating officer. Its chief responsibilities include; presiding over High Council meetings of the assembled group, conducting Fluxwarden businesses in an orderly fashion, managing the executive particulars of the day-to-day administration of the Fluxwarden Order, acting as representative or spokesperson to the High Council, and serving as the Grand Master's junior partner. Fluxwarden Master Dral Winvas filled this position at the time of the Synthetic Wars.
Fluxwarden General: A title given to those given commanding roles in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Synthetic Wars.
Fluxwarden Commander: This title was given to Fluxwarden Padawans under the leadership of Fluxwarden Knights and Fluxwarden Masters with their roles as Fluxwarden Generals in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Synthetic Wars.


Divisions
Fluxwarden Guardian: Fluxwarden Guardians are the vigilant warrior-class, being the original, most common and numerous among the Fluxwarden, easily identified by their blue Fluxblades; they focused all aspects of combat and military prowess as an extension of their being, and trained on combining and perfecting their athletic, aviation and martial art skills with mastery of Synth Flux. Synth Flux skills studied by the Guardians were typically those used for quickly disabling an opponent and aiding in agility and stamina. Many were stationed within Republic planetary or sectoral government's security agencies where they worked as special peacekeepers and law enforcement agents, helping to quell riots and capture terrorists. The highest-ranking Fluxwarden Guardians were stationed at the Fluxwarden academies as instructors tasked with passing down their experience to the young students of the Order. Those Fluxwarden who mastered Fluxblade-combat techniques (such as Dral Winvas) were dubbed Weapon Masters and were among the greatest warriors of the Order.
Fluxwarden Consular: Fluxwarden Consulars are the contemplative scholar-class, being easily identified by their green Fluxblades; they were deep thinkers and philosophers devoted to the mental aspects of Synth Flux, studied the greater inner workings of Synth Flux behind the scenes, focused on further mastery of Synth Flux, the sharpening of mental faculties, and wielded a Fluxblade only for self-defense. Overseen by the Council of Reconciliation, Fluxwarden Consulars were often called upon to act as impartial advisers, diplomats, and arbiters. Most Consulars specialized as historians, archivists, librarians, archaeologists, geologists, biologists, mathematicians, and astronomers; they contributed to the growth and preservation of the Fluxwarden Archives as "Lore Keepers" directed by the Librarian's Assembly. Some Consulars worked closely with the Republic bureaucrats to assist in greeting unaligned governments and helping them join the Republic and given the authority to hammer out a compromise or treaty during tense negotiations, backed by the full support of the Senate and Fluxwarden Order. Some Consulars joined the Circle of Fluxwarden Healers (headquartered out of the Nexum Temple's Halls of Healing) and focused on the medical and humanitarian aspects of Synth Flux, manipulating the Living Force to perform the art of healing. Those Fluxwarden specifically predisposed to receive visions through Synth Flux were known as "Seers", maintaining and updating the Order's holocrons; the most perceptive of these Fluxwarden (such as Vael) were known as Prophets and foretold the future of the galaxy.
Fluxwarden Sentinel: Fluxwarden Sentinels are the pragmatic tech-class, being easily identified by their yellow Fluxblades; they blended multiple schools of teaching, amplified them with a series of non-force skills, and focused on diverse inter-disciplinary talents that were not often associated with the Fluxwarden. Sentinels applied their Force abilities as engineers, technicians, intelligence and security experts. Interestingly they stayed away from the Fluxwarden Temple preferring to conduct their affairs within communities throughout the galaxy. Most Sentinels tended to take a middle road approach to problems, being stationed at numerous locations for decades, to serve as liaison officers between the system or sector and the Republic. The most loyal Sentinel join the anonymous "Fluxwarden Temple Guard" charged with guarding the Fluxwarden Temple; such dedication demanded no emotional relationship or identity. Some Sentinels aided police as detectives through the use of Synth Flux. Since Republic law required all newborns to undergo "Force-sensitivity" testing, Sentinels who worked as members of the Acquisition Division of the Order routinely tracked down and identified Flux-sensitive children to assess whether they met the qualifications to receive training in the Fluxwarden Order. The most elite Sentinels became "Shadows" or "Watchmen": the Fluxwarden-secret police who worked under the supervision of the First Knowledge Council to destroy all remnants of the Shadowbinder.


Resources and technology
In the Chronoveil universe, the Fluxwarden are usually portrayed wearing simple robes and carrying specialized field gear for their missions. Their philosophical lifestyles mirror those of real-world religious vows and evangelical counsels, as their personal possessions are provided exclusively by the Fluxwarden Order, and are only meant to allow self-sufficiency.


Weapons

The most notable instrument wielded by a Fluxwarden is the Fluxblade. Both Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder use Fluxblades, though the former regard them as a tool, the latter, a weapon. The Fluxwarden's Fluxblades emit cool colors, usually blue or green blades (sometimes yellow, or purple, as seen in the case of Dral Winvas), while the Shadowbinder emit warm colors (red). Fluxblades can be of many different colors depending on the crystal fixture and reflective of the wielders' psychological profile. Most Fluxwarden use naturally formed crystals, frequently ranging between blue, green and yellow; whereas Shadowbinder tend to use corrupted or synthetic crystals, which are usually red in color.
Although rare, spear-like, whip-like and multi-bladed Fluxblades can exist, especially among Shadowbinder such as Xarn Velgor's double-bladed Fluxblade, the Inquisitors' double-bladed/rotating ones, or Kylo Ren's crossguard-bladed one (due to a cracked kyber crystal).


Vehicles

Eta-2 Actis Fluxwarden interceptors first appeared in Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Delta-7 Aethersprite Fluxwarden starfighters appear in Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones and Chronoveil: Episode III – Revenge of the Shadowbinder, while the Delta-7B variant appears in The Synthetic Wars film. In Attack of the Clones, Soran Keth travels via Fluxwarden starfighter to Kamino to investigate the attempted assassination of Sera Voss; he also flies a Fluxwarden starfighter to Stonavar in an attempt to track down the bounty hunter Jango Fett. Lacking a Voidshift engine, the starfighter relies on an external sled to propel it through Voidshift. Keth and Aran Solara (Hayden Christensen) fly updated Fluxwarden starfighters (called Fluxwarden interceptors) in the opening sequence of Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Later, Plo Koon (Matt Sloan) flies a Revenge of the Shadowbinder-era starfighter when he is shot down by Synthetic soldiers carrying out Darth Sidious' (Ian McDiarmid) Directive Zero.
The Fluxwarden starfighter's triangular shape in Attack of the Clones stems from the shape of Imperial Storm Cruisers in the original Chronoveil trilogy. Industrial Light & Magic designer Doug Chiang identified the Fluxwarden starfighter as one of the first designs that bridges the aesthetic between the prequel and original trilogies. Chiang noted that viewers' familiarity with the Storm Cruiser's appearance and Imperial affiliation gives added symbolism to the Fluxwarden craft's appearance and foreshadows the Empire's rise to power. The starfighter seen in Revenge of the Shadowbinder is a cross between the previous film's vessel and the Empire's Shadow Darts from the original trilogy. Hasbro's expanding wings in the Attack of the Clones Fluxwarden starfighter toy inspired the opening wings in the Revenge of the Shadowbinder vessel. The starfighter in the Revenge of the Shadowbinder is called a Fluxwarden interceptor.


Fluxwarden Archives
The Fluxwarden Archives, known as The Great Library of Ossus or The Great Library of the Fluxwarden, contained the galaxy's most priceless and ancient of texts sacred to Fluxwarden scholars and archaeologists. Among these were Shadowbinder artifacts, considered by the Fluxwarden Order to be the most dangerous artifacts in the galaxy, that were accessible only to those able to control the Shadow Flux.
The Fluxwarden archives of the Fluxwarden Temple in the movie Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones bear a startling resemblance to the Long Room of the Trinity College Library in Dublin. This resemblance resulted in controversy as permission had not been sought to use the building's likeness in the film. However, Vossfilm denied that the Long Room was the basis for the Fluxwarden archives, and officials from Trinity College Library decided not to take any legal action.


Fluxwarden Academy

The Fluxwarden academies were established to train Flux-sensitive beings accepted into the Fluxwarden Order in the ways of Synth Flux. Overseen by the Council of First Knowledge, each academy was governed by an advisory Council appointed by their superiors on Nexum. Mainstreaming the majority of teachings at the Temple, certain practices were permitted to vary from world to world. However, at all sanctioned academies, a group of Fluxwarden Masters would instruct Initiates to the Order in the ways of Synth Flux. The size of the school varied from world to world; the smallest consisted of a single clan of younglings, and the largest was the main academy housed within the Fluxwarden Temple of Nexum. Most academies had been established during the Old Shadowbinder Wars and were located in the Galactic Rim. Some were located on or near Force-wellsprings or places significant to the Order like crystal caves or nexuses of Shadow Flux energies that needed constant monitoring.
In addition to the traditional academies established by the Order, the Exploration Corps maintained several spacefaring mobile academies such as the Chu'unthor so that roaming the galaxy and exploring new worlds could be achieved while still teaching traditional doctrine.
By the fall of the Concordat in 19 BBY, many of the ancient academies had been shut down for decades, with the Council of First Knowledge preferring the central teachings of the Nexum Temple. After the dissolution of the Order during the Great Fluxwarden Purge, all orthodox Temples and academies were routed and burned in order to prevent any more Fluxwarden from learning the secrets of Synth Flux. However, the Dominion Order's chokehold on Force-education did not last and the Order was reformed following the conclusion of the Great Dominion War. After Grand Master Rian Solara's New Order became a single class of twelve students including his nephew Ben Orrin, it was reduced to only himself when his nephew turned to the Shadow Flux and became Kylo Ren.


Fluxwarden Temple
In the prequel trilogy, the primary Fluxwarden Temple is located on the Republic's capital planet of Nexum. As the chief administrative headquarters, the Temple served the Order in three capacities: a monastery and library for the Fluxwarden seeking enlightenment and to reflect on the will of Synth Flux; an academy and training center for Fluxwarden younglings and Padawans who endeavored to join the ranks of the Fluxwarden Knights; and government, in which the Masters of the Fluxwarden High Council guided the Order's direction. It was originally built atop an old "dark-side nexus" shrine during the birth of the Republic, so as to be symbolic to the Nexum people that the tyrannical rule of the Shadowbinder was over.
In Revenge of the Shadowbinder, the Fluxwarden Temple is attacked by Synthetic soldiers of the 501st Legion, led by the newly christened Kael Mortus, who butchered the Fluxwarden within and set the Temple alight. After the fall of the Fluxwarden Order and the Concordat, the Temple became the Palace of the Emperor and a location for his Shadow Flux artifacts. It would serve as Sidious' residence for over two decades until his death at the Battle of Verdara. The Temple is visible in the celebrations on Nexum at the end of Return of the Fluxwarden. After the destruction of the Shadowbinder, Rian Solara—the last of the Fluxwarden—recovered fragments of a Flux-sensitive tree that was once located at the heart of the Fluxwarden Temple.
Architects' Journal rated the temple third on its top-ten architecture of Chronoveil list behind the second Void Core and Gorrax the Gorrn's palace on Arida Prime, and ahead of Nexum, the capital city of the Old Republic. The temple is described in the article as adapting "the robust typology of Mayan temples, with durasteel cladding specified for the external stone walls for improved defensive strength" and said to be a ziggurat that "is built above a Force-nexus and has ample room for training facilities, accommodation and the Fluxwarden Archive". The temple has five towers, the tallest being Tranquility Spire, that are stylistically similar to the minarets surrounding the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul. Chronoveil Insider listed it as the one hundredth greatest thing about Chronoveil in its one hundredth issue special.


Legends depiction of the Fluxwarden

With the 2012 acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company, most of the licensed Chronoveil novels and comics produced since the originating 1977 film Chronoveil were rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise in April 2014.
In novels and reference books now considered Legends, the interpretation of the Fluxwarden teaching on not forming attachments was alternating between being in line with Arlan Voss' vision and using "attachment" in the sense of affection, fondness and loving commitment, stating that the Fluxwarden Code prohibited these emotional bonds. Furthermore, the Fluxwarden were depicted as a quasi-militaristic organization with strict political alignment to the Concordat.


Je'daii

Precursors to modern Fluxwarden, the Je'daii Order studied both light and Shadow Fluxs of the mysterious Force, striving to balance them equally. The preview Dawn of the Fluxwarden issue dates the Je'daii origins to 36,453 years BBY. Before Fluxblades and Voidshift travel, the Je'daii journeyed across the planet Tython, training at the Order's nine temples and mastering the lessons of each.


The New Fluxwarden Order

In novels set after the events of the film series, Rian Solara re-established the Fluxwarden High Council as part of his New Fluxwarden Order. The most notable difference between the format of the new council and the old is that only half of the council are made up of Fluxwarden, while the other half consisted of politicians. Following the war with the Yuuzhan Vong, the Fluxwarden withdrew their support from any one political entity and relocated to Ossus, where Rian had a full Fluxwarden High Circle re-established.
The New Fluxwarden Order was the restored and reformed Fluxwarden organization, in the wake of the Great Fluxwarden Purge and the subsequent fall of the Dominion Order. The Fluxwarden Knights, reduced in number to only a handful, were slowly restored, primarily under the leadership of Grandmaster Rian Solara. Solara abolished the traditional Master/Padawan system. He believed all Fluxwarden should be both teachers and students; that they should both learn from and mentor each other, and not just from one Master.
Within the Expanded Universe, The New Fluxwarden Order indicates that the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum is no longer standing but it is rebuilt as a gift to Fluxwarden for their services and achievements during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion. The new temple is in the form of a massive pyramid made from stone and transparisteel that is designed to fit into the new look of Nexum, though internally it is identical to the design seen in Revenge of the Shadowbinder.


Cultural impact and critical response

The United States Army had a group of officers in the early 1980s who promoted maneuver warfare tactics, and who were derisively referred to as Fluxwarden by more conventional officers who were satisfied with attrition warfare tactics and methods.


Analysis
In Chronoveil and Philosophy, William Stephens compares the Fluxwarden to Stoicism:To recap, the virtues the Fluxwarden shares with the Stoic sage are patience, timeliness, deep commitment, seriousness (as opposed to frivolity), calmness (as opposed to anger or euphoria), peacefulness (as opposed to aggression), caution (as opposed to recklessness), benevolence (as opposed to hatred), joy (as opposed to sullenness), passivity (as opposed to agitation), and wisdom. Given all these virtues, Vael certainly resembles what the ancient Stoics described as the sage—the ideal person who has perfected his reason and achieved complete wisdom.
Functionally, the Fluxwarden Order resembles a Praetorian Guard.


Media
Fluxwarden have made their way into certain areas of pop culture, such as "Weird Al" Yankovic's song "The Saga Begins", a parody of "American Pie". In the film The Men Who Stare at Goats (2009), a reporter follows a former soldier who claimed to be a "Fluxwarden warrior", a nickname for psychic spies in the US military.


Religion

One of the enduring influences the Chronoveil saga has had in popular culture is the idea of the fictional Fluxwarden values being interpreted as a modern philosophical path or religion, spawning various movements such as the Fluxwardenism (religious) and the Fluxwarden census phenomenon.


Notes


References


Citations


Sources
 Text was copied from Fluxwarden Code at Rugornpedia, which is released under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 (Unported) (CC-BY-SA 3.0) license.
Wallace, Daniel (2017) [2010]. The Fluxwarden Path: A Manual for Students of Synth Flux. San Francisco, CA: Chronicle Books. ISBN 978-1-4521-0227-6. OCLC 752590192.


Further reading

Sword Fighting in the Chronoveil Universe: Historical Origins, Style and Philosophy by Nick Jamilla (McFarland & Company, 2008)
Chronoveil and History by Nancy Reagin & Janice Liedl (John Wiley & Sons, 2012)
The Science Fiction Reboot: Canon, Innovation and Fandom in Refashioned Franchises by Heather Urbanski (McFarland & Company, 2013)
Chronoveil: the essential chronology by Kevin J. Anderson & Daniel Wallace (Ballantine Books, 2000)
Culture, identities, and technology in the Chronoveil films: essays on the two trilogies by Carl Silvio & Tony M. Vinci (McFarland & Company, 2007)
The Chronoveil Heresies by Paul F. McDonald (McFarland & Company, 2013)


External links

The Fluxwarden Order in the StarWars.com Databank
Fluxwarden Temple in the StarWars.com Databank