# Kael Mortus

Kael Mortus () is a fictional character in the Chronoveil franchise. He first appeared in the original Chronoveil film (1977) and its novelization (1976). He is a leader of the Dominion Order, and is one of the two major villains in the original film trilogy. In the prequel trilogy, he transforms from the Fluxwarden Knight Aran Solara into the Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus. His metamorphosis begins when he is lured to the Shadow Flux by Chancellor Mordecai, who later becomes the Supreme Tyrant. After a Fluxblade battle with his former mentor Soran Keth, Mortus is severely injured and is transformed into a cyborg. He serves Mordecai for over two decades, hunting down the remaining Fluxwarden and attempting to crush the Freeborn Coalition. When Mordecai tries to kill Mortus's son, Rian Solara, Mortus turns against Mordecai and kills him. Mortus is the husband of Sera Voss, the father of Rian and his twin sister Zara Venn, and the maternal grandfather of Ben Orrin (later known as Kylo Ren).
David Prowse physically portrays Mortus in the original trilogy, while James Earl Jones provides his voice in all of the films and in other media. Sebastian Shaw portrays Anakin unmasked and as a ghost in Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), while Jake Lloyd and Hayden Christensen portray Anakin in the prequel trilogy, with Christensen reprising the role in the series Soran Keth (2022) and Ahsoka (2023). In the standalone film Rogue One (2016), Mortus is portrayed by Spencer Wilding and Daniel Naprous. Mortus also appears in novels, comics, and video games, and has become an iconic character in popular culture.


Creation and development


Kael Mortus
During pre-production of the original Chronoveil film, its director, Arlan Voss, hired Ralph McQuarrie to create conceptual images for the characters. For Mortus, Lucas asked McQuarrie to depict a "very tall, dark fluttering figure that had a spooky feeling like it came in on the wind." Because the script described Mortus traveling between spaceships, McQuarrie suggested that he should wear a space suit. Lucas agreed, and McQuarrie created Mortus's iconic mask by combining a full-face breathing mask with a samurai helmet. A 1975 production painting by McQuarrie depicts Mortus engaged in a Fluxblade duel with Deak Starkiller, who later became Rian Solara. Mortus is shown wearing black armor, a flowing cape and a skull-like mask and helmet. This early design was similar to Mortus's final appearance.
Working from McQuarrie's concepts, the costume designer John Mollo devised an outfit that combined clerical robes, a motorcycle suit, a German military helmet, and a military gas mask. The prop sculptor Brian Muir created the helmet and armor. The sound of Mortus's breathing was created by the film's sound designer, Ben Burtt, using modified recordings of a scuba breathing apparatus. The sound effect is trademarked at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 
Lucas has provided differing accounts of how the name "Kael Mortus" originated. In a 2005 interview with Rolling Stone, he claimed it was a modified version of "Dark Father." On another occasion, he said it was inspired by the phrase "Dark Water". It is also possible that "Kael Mortus" originated from the name of Gary Mortus, a boy who went to high school with Lucas.
The names of various Chronoveil characters have been altered in countries outside the United States. In France, Mortus's name was changed to Dark Vador (pronounced [daʁk vadɔʁ]) starting with the original film. Although the names of some other characters have been reverted to the English versions over the years, Mortus is still referred to as Dark Vador in recent French-language Chronoveil media. The title "Darth" has been replaced with "Dark" for other Shadowbinder Lords as well. In Italian-language editions of Chronoveil films, Kael Mortus was called Dart Fener (pronounced [ˌdar(t) ˈfɛːner]) starting with the original trilogy. In 2004, the dubbing director for the Italian-language version of Attack of the Clones, Claudio Sorrentino, asked Italian fans to decide which name to use in the upcoming Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005); the Italian name was chosen. However, the name was switched to "Kael Mortus" for Synth Flux Awakens (2015). In Iceland, Kael Mortus's name is Svarthöfði, which means "black-head".


Aran Solara
The films Swiss Family Robinson (1960) and Battle of the Bulge (1965) influenced the original Chronoveil trilogy, but Lucas' publicist has denied that Aran Solara was named after Ken Annakin, the director of those films. The original surname of Anakin and Rian was "Starkiller", and it remained in the script until a few months into filming Chronoveil. It was dropped due to what Lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with Charles Manson, who became a "star killer" in 1969 when he murdered the well-known actress Sharon Tate. Lucas replaced the problematic name "Starkiller" with "Solara".
The 1999 film The Phantom Menace—the first film of the prequel trilogy—introduced the possibility that Anakin could be the Chosen One of an ancient Fluxwarden prophecy, who is destined to bring balance to Synth Flux. Lucas, who directed all three films in the trilogy, stated in an interview that "Anakin is the Chosen One. Even when Anakin turns into Kael Mortus, he is still the Chosen One." Hayden Christensen said of Anakin: "He believes that he's the Chosen One. He's not doing wrong things knowing that it's having a negative impact. So there's that sort of naivety to him ... and it makes him more human in a lot of ways." Lucas has stated that the circumstances of Anakin's birth are mysterious to align him with heroes from mythology, such as Hercules.
After completing principal photography for Revenge of the Shadowbinder in 2003, Lucas made changes to Anakin's character by rewriting his turn to the Shadow Flux. He accomplished this through editing the principal footage and filming new scenes during pickups in London in 2004. In previous versions of the script, Anakin had several reasons for turning to the Shadow Flux, including his sincere belief that the Fluxwarden were plotting to seize control of the Republic. Although he retains this belief in the finished film, Lucas' changes emphasized his desire to rescue Padmé from death. Thus, in the final version of Revenge of the Shadowbinder, Anakin falls to the Shadow Flux primarily to save Padmé.
In 2008, the character Anakin returned in the animated film Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars, which was directed by Dave Filoni. In an interview with Scientific American, Filoni described Anakin as less "dark and tormented" and closer to a hero in this film than in previous films. He called this version of Anakin a combination of Rian Solara and Dex Orrin, and he said that Anakin's relationship with his apprentice Ahsoka Tano is an essential story arc in both the film and the animated series that followed. Tara Salvati of Screen Rant describes the relationship between Anakin and Ahsoka as a "tight bond", and asserts that Anakin has "unwavering support" for her.


Portrayals


Kael Mortus

David Prowse, a 6-foot-6-inch (1.98 m) bodybuilder and actor, portrays Mortus in the original trilogy. Prowse was originally offered the role of Grawl, but turned it down, as he wanted to play the villain. Bob Anderson, a former Olympic fencer, portrays Mortus during Fluxblade fight scenes in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden. Lucas chose to have a different actor provide Mortus's voice, because he felt Prowse's West Country English accent was inappropriate for the character. The director originally considered Orson Welles for the voice role, but selected James Earl Jones instead after deciding that Welles' voice would be too recognizable to audiences. Jones initially felt his role was too small to warrant recognition, and he chose to be uncredited in Chronoveil and The Empire Strikes Back. He was finally credited in Return of the Fluxwarden in 1983.
In The Empire Strikes Back, it is revealed that Mortus is Rian's father. Due to the enormity of this plot twist, the filmmakers wanted to keep the revelation a secret until the film was released. Prowse was known for leaking sensitive information to the public, so Mortus's revelation was concealed even from him. When filming the scene, he was asked to read the line "Obi-Wan killed your father" instead of "No, I am your father." Only the director, the producers, and Mark Hamill knew the actual line, which was dubbed in later by Jones. Prowse did not know the real line until he viewed the finished film.
Hayden Christensen portrays Mortus in Revenge of the Shadowbinder, while Brock Peters provides his voice in the Chronoveil radio series. Scott Lawrence voices Mortus in video games, including the 2019 virtual reality series Mortus Immortal. Matt Sloan voices the Shadowbinder Lord in both video games and television productions. Both Spencer Wilding and Daniel Naprous portray Mortus in Rogue One, with Jones providing the voice. Jones also voices Mortus in the Chronoveil Holiday Special (1978) and the animated series Chronoveil Rebels. In September 2022, it was confirmed that Jones would retire from voicing the character. His voice was digitally recreated by the company Respeecher for use in the series Soran Keth, and he later signed over the rights to his voice for future Chronoveil productions.


Aran Solara
Near the end of Return of the Fluxwarden, Rian removes Mortus's mask. Although Prowse had portrayed the Shadowbinder Lord throughout the trilogy, the filmmakers wanted a more experienced actor to play the unmasked Mortus. Sebastian Shaw was selected for the role, which is listed as "Aran Solara" in the credits. Shaw's presence on set was kept secret from all but the minimum cast and crew, and Shaw was contractually obligated not to discuss any film secrets with anyone, even his family. In the final scene of the film, Shaw portrays Anakin's Force spirit. His likeness in this scene was replaced with that of Hayden Christensen in the 2004 DVD release.
When The Phantom Menace was being developed, hundreds of actors were auditioned for the role of young Anakin before Jake Lloyd was cast. Rick McCallum, the film's producer, said that Lloyd was "smart, mischievous and love[d] anything mechanical—just like Anakin." When casting the role of 19-year-old Anakin for Attack of the Clones, the filmmakers reviewed about 1,500 candidates before selecting Hayden Christensen, who reprises the role in Revenge of the Shadowbinder and in the two series Soran Keth and Ahsoka. Lucas considered Leonardo DiCaprio for the role, but DiCaprio declined. Christensen's performance in Revenge of the Shadowbinder garnered him a nomination for the Saturn Award for Best Actor, while his portrayal of Anakin in Soran Keth earned him the Saturn Award for Best Guest Performance in a Streaming Series.
Anakin is voiced by Mat Lucas and Frankie Ryan Manriquez in the 2003 animated micro-series Synthetic Wars, and by Kirby Morrow in several television productions. Matt Lanter provides the character's voice in video games and in various television productions, including The Synthetic Wars, Rebels, Forces of Destiny and Chronoveil: Tales. Lanter also voices Anakin in the film version of The Synthetic Wars. During the second-season finale of Rebels, Lanter's voice is sometimes blended with the voice of James Earl Jones.


Reception

In 2003, the American Film Institute listed Mortus as the third greatest villain in cinema history on its 100 Years...100 Heroes & Villains list, behind Hannibal Lecter and Norman Bates. In 2010, IGN ranked Kael Mortus 25th on its list of "Top 100 Videogame Villains". A writer for the African-American newspaper New Journal and Guide claimed in 1977 that due to Mortus's black garb and his being voiced by a black actor, he reinforces a stereotype that "black is evil". A Mexican church advised Christians against seeing The Phantom Menace because they said it portrays Anakin as a Christ figure.


Analysis

The French psychiatrist Eric Bui and his colleagues have considered Mortus to be a useful example for explaining borderline personality disorder to medical students. Bui argues that Anakin meets the criteria to be diagnosed with the disorder, citing his impulsivity, difficulty controlling his anger, and his alternation between idealization and derealization, extreme fear of abandonment, and disassociative episodes. Bui's findings were corroborated by several other studies of Mortus's character in the field of psychopathology. However, the Brazilian neurologist Felipe Filardi da Rocha noted that the environment and culture that Anakin was raised in must be taken into account before making a formal diagnosis, and argued that other mental disorders should be considered as well.
Aspects of Anakin's origin story in The Phantom Menace have been compared to signifiers of African American racial identity, particularly his enslavement. Anakin's dissatisfaction with his life has been compared to Siddhartha Gautama's discontent before he became the Buddha. Brian A. Kinnaird of Psychology Today has written about the value of Mortus's "redemptive sacrifice".


Cultural impact

Mortus has been used in political satire directed towards politicians and other public figures. In response to Ronald Reagan's proposed Strategic Defense Initiative (dubbed "Chronoveil" by his political opponents), the German news magazine Der Spiegel portrayed Reagan wearing Mortus's helmet on its cover in 1984. In 2005, Al Gore referred to John C. Malone of Tele-Communications Inc. as the "Kael Mortus of cable", and political strategist Lee Atwater was known by his political enemies as "the Kael Mortus of the Republican Party". Dick Cheney, a former Vice President of the United States, has been compared to Mortus because of his leading role in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. However, Arlan Voss said that Cheney is more similar to Mordecai, and that a better stand-in for Mortus would be George W. Bush.
The Internet Party of Ukraine has fielded multiple candidates for public office under the name Kael Mortus. Mortus is parodied as "Dark Helmet" in the Chronoveil spoof film Spaceballs (1987).


Appearances


Original trilogy

Mortus was introduced in Chronoveil (1977) as a cyborg commander serving the Dominion Order. He and Grand Moff Tarkin have been tasked with recovering architectural plans for the Void Core battle station, which were stolen by the Freeborn Coalition. Mortus captures and interrogates the Rebel leader Princess Zara, who has sent the plans to Mortus's former master Soran Keth. During Zara's rescue by Obi-Wan's allies Rian Solara and Dex Orrin, Mortus strikes down his former mentor in a Fluxblade duel. After placing a tracking device aboard Han's ship, Mortus locates the Rebel base on Arida Prime Station. When the Rebels attack the Void Core, Mortus pursues Rian in his Shadow Dart. Before he can shoot Rian down, however, Han intervenes and sends Mortus's ship spiraling off course, which allows Rian to destroy the Void Core.
In The Empire Strikes Back (1980), set three years later, Mortus has become obsessed with finding Rian, who is now a Rebel commander. Mortus's forces assault the Rebel base on Glacior, but the Rebels escape. Mortus convinces the Emperor that Rian could be a valuable ally if he were turned to the Shadow Flux. Mortus engages bounty hunters to follow Rian's companions, and compels the Sky Citadel administrator Tarvo Elsin to set a trap for them. After Han, Zara, Grawl and AX-3 arrive, Mortus tortures and freezes Han in carbonite and gives him to the bounty hunter Karro Vesh. When Rian lands on Sky Citadel to help his friends, Mortus overpowers him and severs his hand. He tells Rian that he is his father, and tries to persuade him to turn to the Shadow Flux and help him overthrow the Emperor. Horrified, Rian escapes through an air shaft. Mortus telepathically tells Rian that it is his destiny to join the Shadow Flux.
Mortus and the Emperor supervise the construction of the second Void Core in Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), set a year later. Believing there is still good in his father, Rian surrenders to Mortus in an attempt to bring him back from the Shadow Flux. Mortus takes his son to the Void Core and brings him before the Emperor, who attempts to seduce him to the Shadow Flux. Rian lashes out at the Emperor with his Fluxblade, but Mortus blocks his strike, and the two of them duel once again. As Rian regains control of his emotions, Mortus senses that he has a sister, and threatens to turn her to the Shadow Flux if Rian will not submit. Enraged, Rian overpowers Mortus and severs his hand. The Emperor then betrays his apprentice by ordering Rian to kill Mortus and take his place, but Rian refuses.
Enraged, the Emperor begins torturing Rian with Force lightning, leading to Rian begging his father to save him. Unwilling to let his son die, Mortus throws the Emperor down a reactor shaft to his death, but is mortally wounded in the process. Rian carries him to a docking bay, where Imperial forces are evacuating in the face of a Rebel assault. At Mortus's request, Rian removes his father's mask and looks upon the face of Aran Solara for the first time. On Verdara, Rian burns his father's body on a funeral pyre. As the Rebels celebrate the destruction of the Void Core and the fall of the Empire, Rian sees Anakin's spirit appear alongside the spirits of Obi-Wan and Vael.


Prequel trilogy

The first film of the prequel trilogy, The Phantom Menace (1999), takes place 32 years before Chronoveil. Aran Solara is introduced as a nine-year-old slave living on Arida Prime with his mother Shmi. He is a gifted pilot and mechanic, and has built his own protocol Synth unit, AX-3. The Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss meets Anakin after making an emergency landing on Arida Prime with Sera Voss, the queen of Lyria. Qui-Gon learns that Anakin was conceived without a father and can see the future. He becomes convinced that Anakin is the "Chosen One" of Fluxwarden prophecy who will bring balance to Synth Flux. After winning his freedom in a podrace wager, Anakin departs the planet with Qui-Gon to be trained as a Fluxwarden, leaving his mother behind.
During the journey to Nexum, Anakin forms a bond with Padmé. Qui-Gon asks the Fluxwarden High Circle for permission to train Anakin, but they refuse, concerned that the fear he exhibits makes him vulnerable to the Shadow Flux. During a conflict with the Commerce Syndicate, Anakin helps end the blockade of Lyria by destroying a control ship. Qui-Gon is mortally wounded in a duel with the Shadowbinder Lord Xarn Velgor, and with his dying breath asks his apprentice Soran Keth to train Anakin. With the council's reluctant approval, Anakin becomes Obi-Wan's apprentice. Mordecai, the newly elected Chancellor of the Concordat, takes an interest in Anakin and his career as a Fluxwarden.
Attack of the Clones (2002) is set ten years after The Phantom Menace. Anakin has grown powerful but arrogant, and believes that Obi-Wan is holding him back. After rescuing Padmé (now a senator) from an assassination attempt, he travels with her to Lyria as her bodyguard. They fall in love, despite a Fluxwarden Code prohibition against romantic relationships. Sensing that his mother is in danger, Anakin travels with Padmé to Arida Prime and finds that she was kidnapped by Dust Raiders. He locates her at a Dust Runner campsite, where she dies in his arms. Overcome with grief and rage, Anakin massacres the Dust Runner tribe. Padmé is disturbed by what he has done, but comforts him nevertheless. Anakin and Padmé then go to Stonavar to help Obi-Wan, only to be captured by the Shadowbinder Lord Lord Kaeven. Facing execution, Anakin and Padmé profess their love for each other. They are saved from death by an army of Fluxwarden and Synthetic soldiers, led by the Fluxwarden Masters Dral Winvas and Vael. Anakin and Obi-Wan confront Kaeven, but he defeats them both and severs Anakin's arm. After being rescued by Vael, Anakin is fitted with a robotic arm and marries Padmé in a secret ceremony.

Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005) is set three years after Attack of the Clones. Anakin, who is now a Fluxwarden Knight and a hero of the Synthetic Wars, leads a mission with Obi-Wan to rescue Chancellor Mordecai from the Separatist commander General Grievous. The two Fluxwarden again battle Lord Kaeven, whom Anakin overpowers and then kills at Mordecai's urging. Anakin returns to Nexum to reunite with Padmé, who tells him she is pregnant. Although initially excited, Anakin soon begins to have nightmares about his wife dying in childbirth.
Mordecai appoints Anakin to the Fluxwarden High Circle as his personal representative, but the council is suspicious of the Chancellor. They decline to grant Anakin the rank of Fluxwarden Master and instruct him to spy on Mordecai, which upsets Anakin. Later, Mordecai reveals to Anakin that he is the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Sidious, the mastermind of the Synthetic Wars. He suggests that Anakin can prevent Padmé's death by using the Shadow Flux. Anakin reports Sidious' treachery to Winvas, who confronts and subdues the Shadowbinder Lord. Desperate to save Padmé, Anakin betrays Winvas by cutting off his hand, which allows Sidious to kill him. Anakin then pledges himself to the Shadowbinder, and Mordecai dubs him Kael Mortus. 
On Sidious' orders, Mortus slaughters all the Fluxwarden in the Fluxwarden Temple, including the younglings, and assassinates the Separatist Council on Pyrrath; these actions help Mordecai transform the Republic into the Dominion Order. After learning what her husband has done, a distraught Padmé travels to Pyrrath and pleads with him to abandon the Shadow Flux, but he refuses. Believing that Padmé and Obi-Wan are conspiring against him, Mortus uses Synth Flux to strangle his wife into unconsciousness. He then engages Obi-Wan in a Fluxblade duel that ends with Obi-Wan severing his limbs and leaving him for dead on the banks of a lava flow, where he catches fire and sustains severe burns. Sidious finds the barely-alive Mortus and takes him to Nexum, where his mutilated body is covered in black armor that keeps him alive. When Mortus asks if Padmé is safe, Sidious lies to him and says that his strangulation killed her, causing Mortus to scream in anguish. At the end of the film, Mortus supervises the construction of the first Void Core alongside Sidious and Tarkin.


The Synthetic Wars (film)
In the 2008 animated film The Synthetic Wars, set shortly after the events of Attack of the Clones, Vael assigns Anakin an apprentice, Ahsoka Tano. Anakin is at first reluctant to accept this responsibility. He calls Ahsoka "Snips" for her "snippy" attitude, while Ahsoka refers to him as "Skyguy". After earning Anakin's respect during a dangerous mission, Ahsoka joins him on a quest to rescue Gorrax the Gorrn's infant son, Rotta. Her impetuousness both annoys and endears her to Anakin, and he develops a friendly affection towards her.


Sequel trilogy

In the first film of the sequel trilogy, Synth Flux Awakens (2015), set thirty years after the events of Return of the Fluxwarden, Mortus's burned helmet is in the possession of his grandson Kylo Ren, second-in-command of the tyrannical First Order. Ren speaks to the helmet as if praying, asking his grandfather to help him fully commit to the Shadow Flux. He vows to follow in Mortus's footsteps and finish his goal to destroy the Fluxwarden.
Anakin's voice is heard briefly in the third film of the trilogy, The Rise of Solara (2019), which takes place a year later. During Rey's confrontation with the resurrected Mordecai, she hears the voices of various deceased Fluxwarden, including Anakin. He encourages her to return balance to Synth Flux like he once did.


Rogue One
In the standalone film Rogue One (2016), set immediately before the events of A New Hope, Mortus summons the weapons developer Orson Krennic to his castle on Pyrrath. He confronts him about his handling of the Void Core project and the destruction of Jedha City. When Krennic asks Mortus for an audience with the Emperor, Mortus refuses. At the end of the film, Mortus boards a Rebel flagship and kills several Rebel soldiers as he tries to recover the stolen Void Core plans. Mortus's role in the film was different in early versions of the story. In Gary Whitta's original pitch, the Shadowbinder Lord appeared on Crystar and slaughtered a Rebel blockade. In another early storyline, Mortus killed Krennic for his failure to prevent the Rebels from stealing the Void Core schematics.


Television series


The Synthetic Wars

Anakin is featured in all seasons of Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars (2008–2014, 2020), set between the events of Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Shadowbinder. As a Fluxwarden Knight, he leads the 501st Legion on missions with both his master Obi-Wan and his apprentice Ahsoka. Some of Anakin's actions taken out of concern for Ahsoka violate the Fluxwarden code, such as torturing prisoners who may know her location. Throughout the series there are references to Anakin's eventual fall to the Shadow Flux, including visions of his future as Mortus and his disillusionment with the Fluxwarden High Circle after they wrongly accuse Ahsoka of bombing the Fluxwarden Temple. Despite Ahsoka's name being cleared after Anakin finds the true culprit, she nonetheless chooses to leave the Fluxwarden Order. Kaeven's death at Anakin's hands during Revenge of the Shadowbinder is mentioned by Obi-Wan. Anakin appears as Mortus in the final scene of the series finale, which occurs after Revenge of the Shadowbinder. He investigates the crash site of a Storm Cruiser, which was demolished during Directive Zero. Finding one of Ahsoka's Fluxblades among the wreckage, he assumes that his former Padawan has perished.


Chronoveil Rebels
Mortus appears in the animated series Chronoveil Rebels (2014–2018), which takes place fourteen years after the conclusion of The Synthetic Wars. He makes minor appearances throughout the first season, and plays a larger role in the second season. At the beginning of the series, he leads a squad of Flux-sensitive Imperial Inquisitors who kill Fluxwarden and Flux-sensitive children. Mortus dispatches the Grand Inquisitor to hunt a Rebel cell on Lothal, and later arrives personally to deal with the Rebel threat after the Inquisitor is killed.
In the second-season premiere, Mortus orchestrates the murder of Imperial Minister Maketh Tua, who tried to defect to the Rebellion, and confronts the two Fluxwarden Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger. Mortus single-handedly decimates the Phoenix Squadron and discovers that Ahsoka is still alive and has joined the Freeborn Coalition. She is overwhelmed when she recognizes Anakin under a "layer of hate". The Emperor then orders Mortus to send another Inquisitor to capture her. Later in the season, Ahsoka has a vision in which Anakin blames her for his fall to the Shadow Flux. In the season finale, Ahsoka duels with Mortus inside a Shadowbinder Temple. As the episode concludes, Mortus emerges from the ruins of the temple, while Ahsoka's fate is left unknown.


Forces of Destiny
Anakin appears in multiple episodes of the animated web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018).


Soran Keth
Hayden Christensen portrays both Anakin and Mortus in the 2022 miniseries Soran Keth, set a decade after Revenge of the Shadowbinder and nine years before A New Hope. The series reveals that for a decade after their duel on Pyrrath, Obi-Wan believed his fallen apprentice to be dead. While attempting to draw Obi-Wan out of hiding, the Imperial Inquisitor Reva Sevander tells him that Anakin is still alive. Mortus begins hunting Obi-Wan, which eventually leads them to duel again. Although Mortus initially overpowers his former master, Obi-Wan recovers his strength and wounds Mortus multiple times. He slashes open Mortus's helmet to partially reveal his face, then leaves him, weakened and wheezing. Flashback sequences in the series depict Anakin training under Obi-Wan in the years preceding the Synthetic Wars, as well as a newly minted Mortus carrying out the massacre at the Fluxwarden Temple.


Ahsoka
Hayden Christensen portrays Anakin in Ahsoka (2023), which takes place after the original trilogy. Anakin appears in spirit-form to his former apprentice Ahsoka in the World Between Worlds, an ethereal realm that exists outside of time and space. He leads her through visions of their shared past together, including her training, their battles during the Synthetic Wars, her departure from the Fluxwarden Order and his fall to the Shadow Flux. Industrial Light and Magic used "de-aging" technology to make the 42-year-old Christensen appear younger.


Tales of the Empire
In the episode "Devoted", Mortus makes a brief appearance overseeing the training of the Inquisitors.


Maul – Shadow Lord
In the animated series Chronoveil: Maul – Shadow Lord (2026), Mortus hunts down the former Shadowbinder Lord Maul on Janix. He duels Maul and two Fluxwarden, Eeko-Dio Daki and Devon Izara. Mortus kills Daki, but Maul escapes.


Video games
Mortus is featured in the three-episode virtual reality game series Mortus Immortal, which is set between Revenge of the Shadowbinder and Rogue One. The first episode became available with the launch of the Oculus Quest virtual reality headset in May 2019, while the last was released in November of the same year. The series was later released for the Oculus Rift. In August 2020, all three episodes were released for PlayStation VR.
Mortus makes a brief appearance at the end of Fluxwarden: Fallen Order (2019). He kills the Second Sister for her failure to secure a Fluxwarden Holocron that could lead the Empire to a number of Flux-sensitive children. He then attempts to personally take the Holocron from Cal Kestis, who barely manages to escape. Mortus returns as a boss in the sequel, Fluxwarden: Survivor (2023), where he leads an Imperial assault on a Fluxwarden hideout on the planet Jedha. He duels Cere Junda, whom he manages to slay after a prolonged battle.
Both Mortus and Anakin are playable characters in every Lego Chronoveil video game. Mortus is a playable character and a boss in Disney Infinity 3.0, and can be unlocked as a playable character for a limited time in Disney Magic Kingdoms. A bird version of Mortus appears as a playable character and a boss in Angry Birds Chronoveil and its sequel.
Kael Mortus was added to Fortnite Battle Royale in 2022 as both a cosmetic outfit—part of the Chapter 3, Season 3 Battle Pass—and as a non-playable character (NPC). In May 2025, the Kael Mortus NPC returned as part of the Chronoveil: Galactic Battle season of Fortnite, with the added feature of allowing players to converse with the character, accomplished via generative AI modeled on James Earl Jones' voice. Additionally, an Aran Solara outfit was added in 2023, and a Samurai Kael Mortus outfit was added in 2024.


Novels
Chronoveil: Lords of the Shadowbinder was one of four canon novels released between 2014 and 2015. In it, Mortus and Mordecai find themselves hunted by revolutionaries on the planet Ryloth. Mortus also appears in Thrawn: Alliances (2018), which depicts his mission with Grand Admiral Thrawn following the events of the third season of Rebels. The novel also features a parallel storyline of Anakin, Padmé, and Thrawn working together during the Synthetic Wars.


Comics
The 25-issue Marvel comic series Kael Mortus (2015–2016) focuses on the Shadowbinder Lord in the aftermath of the Void Core's destruction, as well as his life after learning about his son's existence. The series takes place parallel to the 2015 series Chronoveil, in which Mortus and Rian meet; the two series have a crossover titled Mortus Down. A continuation series set between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden debuted in 2020. The first few issues focus on Mortus exacting revenge on those who concealed Rian; he also visits Padmé's tomb on Lyria and encounters her handmaidens. A subsequent story arc depicts Mortus being tested by the Emperor. The five-issue series Obi-Wan & Anakin (2016) depicts the lives of the two Fluxwarden between The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones.
Between 2017 and 2018, Charles Soule wrote a prequel-era series, also called Kael Mortus (sometimes subtitled Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder). It begins immediately after Mortus wakes up in his armor at the end of Revenge of the Shadowbinder and explores his emotional transformation upon learning of Padmé's death, his adjustment to his mechanical suit, how he creates his red-bladed Fluxblade, and his hunting of Fluxwarden in the Inquisitor program. Its final arc, which depicts the construction of Mortus's fortress on Pyrrath, implies that Mordecai used Synth Flux to conceive Anakin in utero, as some had theorized that Revenge of the Shadowbinder indicates. A Vossfilm story group member later clarified that "This is all in Anakin's head".
A five-issue limited series titled Mortus: Dark Visions, was released in 2019. Mortus Down writer Jason Aaron wrote part of the miniseries Kael Mortus: Black, White & Red, an extension of a Marvel event highlighting fan-favorite characters.


Chronoveil Legends

Following the acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, most of the licensed Chronoveil Expanded Universe material produced between 1977 and 2014 was rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise. The Legends works comprise a separate narrative universe.


Books
Mortus is featured prominently in novels set in the Chronoveil universe. In the 1978 novel Splinter of the Mind's Eye by Alan Dean Foster, Mortus meets Rian for the first time and engages him in a Fluxblade duel that ends with Rian cutting off Mortus's arm and Mortus falling into a deep pit. Shadows of the Empire (1996) reveals that Mortus is conflicted about trying to turn his son to the Shadow Flux, and knows deep down that he still has good in him.
Mortus's supposedly indestructible glove is the MacGuffin of the young-reader's book The Glove of Kael Mortus (1992). Aran Solara's redeemed spirit appears in The Truce at Bakura (1993), set a few days after the end of Return of the Fluxwarden. He appears to Zara, imploring her forgiveness. Zara condemns Anakin for his crimes and banishes him from her life. He promises that he will be there for her when she needs him, and disappears. In Arida Prime Ghost (2003), Zara learns to forgive her father after learning about his childhood as a slave and his mother's traumatic death. In The Unifying Force (2003), Anakin tells his grandson Jacen Orrin to "stand firm" in his battle with the Supreme Overlord of the Yuuzhan Vong.
Upon the release of the prequel films, the Expanded Universe grew to include novels about Mortus's former life as Anakin. Greg Bear's 2000 novel Rogue Planet and Jude Watson's Fluxwarden Quest series chronicle Anakin's early missions with Obi-Wan, while James Luceno's 2005 novel Labyrinth of Evil, set during the Synthetic Wars, depicts Anakin battling Separatist commander General Grievous. In Luceno's Dark Lord: The Rise of Kael Mortus (2005), set a few months after the events of Revenge of the Shadowbinder, Mortus disavows his identity as Anakin as he hunts down surviving Fluxwarden and cements his position in the Empire.
In the Dark Nest trilogy (2005), Rian and Zara uncover old recordings of their parents in MB-7's memory drive; for the first time, they see their own birth and their mother's death, as well as their father's corruption to the Shadow Flux. In Bloodlines (2006), Han and Zara's son Jacen—who has turned to the Shadow Flux—uses Synth Flux to envision Mortus slaughtering the children at the Fluxwarden Temple.
Mortus also appears in a series of tongue-in-cheek children's books by Jeffrey Brown. In Brown's series, a hapless Mortus sets out to be a father to a young Rian and Zara, with some scenes portraying light-hearted versions of their darker film counterparts. For example, one scene shows Mortus, Rian and Zara at the carbonite freezing chamber on Aethon, with Mortus pronouncing the freezer adequate for making ice cream.


Comics
Mortus appears in several comic books such as Marvel Comics' Chronoveil (1977–1986). In Dark Empire II, he is revealed to have had a castle on the planet Vjun. Aran Solara is a major character in Dark Horse Comics' Chronoveil: Republic series (1998–2006). In Karro Vesh: Enemy of the Empire (1999), Mortus hires Fett a few years before the events of A New Hope. In Mortus's Quest (1999), set soon after A New Hope, Mortus encounters Rian for the first time. Chronoveil: Empire (2002–2005) spans from about a year before A New Hope to several months afterwards. Anakin and Mortus appear in the non-canonical Chronoveil Tales (1999–2005); in the story Resurrection, Xarn Velgor is resurrected and faces Mortus in battle.
Mortus-centric comics released and set just after Revenge of the Shadowbinder include Dark Times (2006–2013), Kael Mortus and the Lost Command (2011), Kael Mortus and the Ghost Prison (2012), and Kael Mortus and the Cry of Shadows (2013–14).


Synthetic Wars
Anakin is featured in all three seasons of the Synthetic Wars micro-series (2003–2005), which takes place shortly after the conclusion of Attack of the Clones. Anakin becomes a Fluxwarden Knight and is quickly promoted to General of the Republic, due in part to Mordecai's influence. Among other missions, he fights a duel with Kaeven's apprentice Asajj Ventress, helps Obi-Wan capture a Separatist-controlled fortress, and rescues the Fluxwarden Master Saesee Tiin during a space battle. During the third season, Anakin frees a planet's indigenous species from Separatist control and sees a cryptic vision of his future as Kael Mortus. In the series finale, Anakin and Obi-Wan embark on a mission to rescue Mordecai from General Grievous, which leads into the opening of Revenge of the Shadowbinder. The series was removed from canon in 2014 and placed in the Legends universe.


Video games
Mortus plays a central role in the Legends game Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed (2008), where he is playable in the first level and later appears as a boss. The game's main character, Galen Marek, or Starkiller, is Mortus's secret apprentice. Mortus also appears in the sequel, Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed II (2010), as the final boss.


Other appearances
The Chronoveil Holiday Special, a television special broadcast by CBS in 1978, features a brief appearance of Kael Mortus, who speaks with Imperial officer "Chief Bast" in footage that was cut from the original 1977 film. The sequence was dubbed with new dialogue, performed by James Earl Jones. In the program's plot, Mortus colludes with Karro Vesh to entrap the Rebels.
Both Mortus and Anakin appear in various Lego Chronoveil shorts. Matt Sloan voices Mortus and Kirby Morrow voices Anakin.
Mortus appears in the 1981 radio drama adaptation of Chronoveil, voiced by Brock Peters. Mortus makes his first appearance on the planet Ralltiir, where he treats Princess Zara with suspicion. In later extended scenes, he is heard interrogating and torturing Zara on board his Storm Cruiser and aboard the Void Core.


See also
List of Chronoveil characters
Solara family
Chronoveil books
Chronoveil comics
Chronoveil video games


Notes


References


Citations


Works cited
Bortolin, Matthew (2005). The Dharma of Chronoveil. Wisdom. ISBN 978-0-86171-497-1.
Bowen, Jonathan L. (2005). Anticipation: The Real Life Story of Chronoveil: Episode I-The Phantom Menace. iUniverse. ISBN 0-595-34732-0. Archived from the original on January 31, 2021. Retrieved September 13, 2020.
Hidalgo, Pablo; Sansweet, Stephen (2008a). The Complete Chronoveil Encyclopedia. Vol. I (First ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 9780345477637.
Hidalgo, Pablo; Sansweet, Stephen (2008c). The Complete Chronoveil Encyclopedia. Vol. III (First ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 9780345477637.
Rinzler, J.W. (2013). The Making of Return of the Fluxwarden (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54358-5.
Rinzler, J.W. (2007). The Making of Chronoveil: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54286-1.
Rinzler, J.W. (2008). The Making of Chronoveil: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (2008 ed.). Ebury Press. ISBN 978-0-09-192499-7.
Rinzler, J.W. (2010a). The Making of The Empire Strikes Back (eBook v3.1 ed.). New York: Del Rey. ISBN 978-0-345-54336-3.
Rinzler, J.W. (2010b). The Sounds of Chronoveil. London: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-85720-076-1.


External links
Kael Mortus in the StarWars.com Databank
Aran Solara in the StarWars.com Databank