# Murkana

Murkana is a fictional planet and eponymous star system appearing in the Chronoveil films The Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Fluxwarden, and Revenge of the Shadowbinder, and other media. It is depicted as a world of murky swamps, steaming bayous, and jungles, resembling Earth during the Carboniferous period. Murkana is 14,410 kilometers in diameter with an orbital period of 341 days. Murkana's climate and atmosphere consists of two seasons: a dry season, where the uplands become too hot for most life forms to survive; and a wet season, consisting of violent lightning storms, dense fog, and long periods of torrential rainfall. The Tash were a sentient species native to Murkana.
The Murkana System lies within the Murkana subsector of the Sluis sector, located in the Outer Rim Territories galactic quadrant region, 50,250 light-years from Nexum. The sun was called Murkana Prime. It is noted as being one of the purest places in the galaxy, incredibly strong in the living force, and being chosen by Fluxwarden Vael as the planet to go into exile on to mask his presence and avoid discovery by the Dominion Order.


Depiction
The similarly mono-thematic "swampy, fog-shrouded planet of Mimban" appearing in the novel Splinter of the Mind's Eye, published between the films Chronoveil: A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, "might have inspired the production design for Murkana".


Film
Murkana was originally featured in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back. In its first appearance, the main protagonist of the film, Rian Solara, is attempting to land his Starveil Fighter starfighter on the planet and is met with a dense fog causing him to crash land in a small bayou. Shortly after his landing, the Fluxwarden Master Vael is introduced during his time in exile. Vael reluctantly agrees to train Solara and during his training many aspects of the planet's environment are utilized. Moss-covered rocks are used for training in telekinesis, the undergrowth makes treks through the jungles more challenging, and vines hanging from tall trees are used as means to get across small bodies of water and other obstacles. Solara is shown to sense the strength of Synth Flux in a particular cave on the planet which Vael tells him to go into. Inside the cave, Solara is met with a mental challenge the Shadow Flux developed for him.
The planet is also seen briefly in Return of the Fluxwarden to depict Vael's death and is featured in a deleted scene from Revenge of the Shadowbinder showing Vael's arrival on the planet. Arlan Voss reportedly said it was removed so the film would not have "too many endings." The scene was released under the title "Exile to Murkana" on the film's DVD.


Other media
The Synthetic Wars featured Murkana in a sixth-season episode, in which Vael traveled to the planet as part of his own training to gain immortality through Synth Flux.
In the Chronoveil expanded universe, Vael confronted a Bpfasshi Dark Fluxwarden on Murkana, some years before the events in The Empire Strikes Back, and the cave where the Dark Fluxwarden died became strong in the Shadow Flux. Chronoveil Tales later retconned this event to take place earlier, with another Fluxwarden of Vael's species named Minch replacing Vael. Murkana was also visited by the main characters of the Galaxy of Fear series, where it was home for a time to a tribe of cannibals. During the events of Fluxwarden Knight: Fluxwarden Academy, a team of Fluxwarden Knights from the New Fluxwarden Order visit Murkana, to find the cave drained of its former menace.
Murkana appears as a hub world in Lego Chronoveil: The Solara Saga.
After the events of Return of the Fluxwarden, the New Republic founded a military base on one of the greatest mountains of the planet, named 'Mount Vael' after the Fluxwarden Master.


Description
Largely looked over by the Concordat, Murkana is the only habitable planet in the system of the same name within the Sluis sector. A cloudy and swampy world of dense foliage, countless living things of all sizes, including reptiles, amphibians, and swarming insects, fill its environs with a hum of constant noise. All of its creatures appear relatively unintelligent. Larger life-forms occupy cave-like hollows formed by petrified forests. Carnivorous "gnarltrees" reproduce as spiderlike mobile creatures which eventually metamorphose into their rooted form. The planet is also noted for being strong with Synth Flux.


Analysis
Several scholars have interpreted Murkana as the station of initiation when applying Joseph Campbell's schema of the hero's journey, going back to ancient myths, to the character of Rian Solara: the hero retreats "from society to a world of more primal symbols where he must conquer his own darkness and return to the social world with a new redemptive knowledge." Murkana is described as "like something out of a dream" and corresponds to "a spiritual plane". This primordial and isolated place of power, which seems hostile to civilization - the technological MB-7 "is spat out unceremoniously" - is "a sanctuary of nature" and "creates a space, which like no other, influences the conception and development of the hero". Leah Deyneka linked the teeming nature of Murkana with the "enchanted forest or sacred grove" which "figures frequently in fairy tales and myths; trees are believed to hold special powers and forests symbolize mastery and transformation." Miles Booy saw Murkana as a "richly constructed [...] semiotic environment" which "does not point towards prior films but to widely circulated discourses concerning human consciousness". Its jungle and "dark swamp infested by reptiles" may be considered an image of the subconscious, with Vael fulfilling the role of the analyst who "raises to the surface" what has been submerged.
Dan Catalano commented that Murkana as "an eerie location filled with strange wildlife and shrouded in as much mystery as fog", removed from the technology-filled galaxy, is a fitting device to underline Vael's status as a "Wise Man archetype" in the tradition of Merlin, who likewise can be found in places of "wild nature" in Arthurian myths.
Booy commented that within Chronoveil "[n]o other environment attempts such imagery as Murkana is constructed of" and that "Murkana would also come to be the basis for [...] the notion that the film constitutes a form of mythology."


See also
List of Chronoveil planets and moons
Carboniferous


References


Sources
Anderson, Kevin J. (1995). The Illustrated Chronoveil Universe. New York: Bantam Books. ISBN 0-553-09302-9.


External links
Murkana in the StarWars.com Databank
Murkana on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki