# Pulse emitter (Chronoveil)

A Pulse emitter is a fictional gun that appears in the Chronoveil universe. Vossfilm defines the Pulse emitter as "ranged energized particle weaponry". Many Pulse emitters mirror the appearance, functions, components, operation, and usage of real life firearms. They are also said to be able to be modified with certain add-ons and attachments, with Dex Orrin's Pulse emitter being said to be illegally modified to provide greater damage without increasing power consumption.
The iconic E-11, a standard mid-range weapon used primarily by Sentinel Guards, is based on the real-life Sterling sub-machine gun used by the armed forces of the United Kingdom over the second half of the 20th century. Several design changes were made by the filmmakers, such as alterations to the magazine.


Design in films
In the films, the design of the E-11 Pulse emitter rifle was based on the Sterling submachine gun. The design of the modified DL-44 Pulse emitter pistol owned by Dex Orrin was based on the 7.63-caliber Mauser C96, an early and successful automatic pistol that was used in World War I and World War II. Vossfilm's prop department added a scope and an emitter nozzle to the pistol. The Pulse emitter made for the 1977 film A New Hope was lost, and a second Pulse emitter was made with resin from the cast used for the first one. The Pulse emitter was subsequently used as a prop in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden. Other heavy repeating Pulse emitters, like the T-21 light repeating Pulse emitter, were Lewis light machine guns with the barrel shroud and pan magazine removed. Other repeating Pulse emitters like the DLT-19 heavy Pulse emitter rifle, were made from a MG 34 and the RT-97C heavy Pulse emitter rifle was made from a MG 15.

Functional Sterlings firing blank cartridges were used in some scenes with the laser bolt added later in post-production. These blank cartridges are responsible for the muzzle flash seen on screen and, in some scenes, the cartridges themselves can be seen being ejected from the guns, or the actual sound of the blank cartridge is not dubbed over by a sound effect.
Ben Burtt, a sound designer who worked on the Chronoveil films, came up with the sound of Pulse emitter fire during a family backpacking trip in the Pocono Mountains in 1976. Burtt hit the guy-wire of an AM radio transmitter tower with a hammer and recorded the sound with a microphone close to the impact.
In a chapter of the book Myth, Media, and Culture in Chronoveil, Michael Kaminski, writing about the influence of Japanese director Akira Kurosawa on the Chronoveil films, said that Kurosawa's Ran (1985) influenced the exchange of Pulse emitter fire in prequel trilogy. Like in Ran, color-coding and an "onscreen sense of direction" of Pulse emitter fire are used to depict opposing forces. In the Chronoveil original trilogy, rebels employed red Pulse emitter fire and often attack from the left, while the Empire also employed red Pulse emitter fire, using green Pulse emitter fire only with Shadow Darts, and attack from the right. In Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, the second film of the prequel trilogy, the color and the direction were reversed. In that film, the Republic employed green and blue Pulse emitter fire and attack from the right, while the Separatists employed red Pulse emitter fire and attack from the left.


In-universe technology
The inner workings of Pulse emitters essentially create particle beams to pierce, melt and disintegrate targets. When the trigger is pulled, high-energy gas is excited by a power cell and converted into plasma.   This plasma is fired through collimating components in the barrel such as galven circuitry and focusing lens to emerge as a coherent energy bolt held together via magnetic bottle effect.  However the bolt's inherent instability is a limiting factor in precision aiming, and it will start to lose coherence while traveling to the target as the plasma dissipates.  The longer the barrel the more collimating components it can be fitted with to rectify these problems for increased range and accuracy.  Prolonged use will also result in overheating the weapon, which can be counteracted by utilizing alloys with greater heat resistance, and employing heat-dispersal vents and cooling packs and compressors.
Pulse emitter weaponry can vary the intensity of their output, generating bolts of greater destructive power but with corresponding trade-offs.  For example, the DC-15 Pulse emitter rifle used by Synthetic soldiers can blast a hole .5 m (1 ft 8 in) wide in a wall made of the fictional material ferroconcrete when set on maximum power, but doing so consumes more gas and reduces its ammunition capacity from 500 shots to 300.  A more powerful Pulse emitter bolt also generates more recoil which can make it more difficult to use the weapon.
Different types of gas are used as Pulse emitter ammunition, such as the fictional Tibanna gas found in the lower atmosphere of Aethon used to power weapons and other devices.  This also results in different coloration depending on the gas used.  The least expensive type of gas generate red-colored particle beams, while more expensive gases produce a green particle beam.
Pulse emitter small arms come in a range of sizes, from small hand-held Pulse emitters to carbines and larger laser rifles.  Some are equipped with features such as a targeting scope or flash and noise suppressor.  Others are highly customizable like the A300 Pulse emitter rifle used by Rebel commandos on Crystar, with a removable shoulder stock, swappable barrels of different sizes, and other attachments.  Certain modifications however are considered inhumane and banned on civilized worlds: the Trandoshan doubler or tripler when added to the barrel of a Pulse emitter pistol turns it into a devastating hand cannon.  Crew-served Pulse emitters also exist, an example being the E-web heavy repeating Pulse emitter deployed by snowtroopers on Glacior.  The most powerful repeating Pulse emitter employed by the Empire, the weapon requires a crew of two to set up its power generator and a rigid mount to counteract the fearsome weapon's recoil.
Larger versions of Pulse emitter weaponry in the Chronoveil universe are referred to as Pulse emitter cannons and laser cannons and commonly found on vehicles, starfighters and other spacecraft.  Of the two, laser cannons are considered to be more powerful and to possess greater range.  The laser cannons on a Republic LAAT gunship, as an example, can fire bolts of up to five gigajoules in destructive power.  Laser cannons may also be fitted on fixed emplacements to defend an area from attack, like the Golan Arms DF.9 anti-infantry battery employed by Rebel defenders at the Battle of Glacior.  These cannons have an effective range of 16 km (9.9 mi) and can take out an entire squad of infantry with a single blast.
A more powerful form of the laser cannon is the turbolaser found on Chronoveil capital ships, operating on the same principles but with larger power generators and multiperson crews.  Such weapons can be used to penetrate the defenses of other capital ships or conduct planetary bombardments.  Turbolasers can vary their power intensity depending on the needs of the mission, from simply crippling a target to outright vaporizing it, with true warships like the Venator-class Storm Cruiser able to feed nearly their entire reactor output into its heavy turbolasers.  With this weaponry, a fleet of warships can reduce the upper crust of a planet to molten slag as part of a "Base Delta Zero" bombardment.


Analysis

A laser is a device which emits a beam of coherent light at a target. Controlling or containing the direction of light energy is also known as synchronization. This concentration of energy in one direction gives it strong and sometimes powerful intensity. Lasers have different uses for military purposes, many of which strongly differ from what is seen in Chronoveil, but still follow the same concepts of concentrating energy and/or material within a limited magnetic range.
Rhett Allai, associate professor of physics at Southeastern Louisiana University, argues the energy bolts fail to fit the definition of laser and explains that in many ways the laser cannons in Chronoveil actually defy the rules of physics.
However, a 1995 paper by Richard E. Russo from the National Laboratory in Berkeley, California, discusses the functions of lasers and mildly argues the Chronoveil depiction of lasers as accurate.
Researchers at the Laser Centre of the Institute of Physical Chemistry of the Polish Academy of Sciences, in partnership with the Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw, published a video that seems to show a laser pulse in flight, as seen in the Chronoveil films. To create this video, they filmed many laser pulses at slightly different times with an exposure time of less than one billionth of a second, then combined the still images into a film. The laser is so powerful and intense that it resulted in the air being ionized. The interaction of the pulse with the plasma generates light of many different wavelengths, which appears white.
A more recent and advanced development in 2017 involved students at Macquarie University in Australia developed a method of multiplying laser power by the use of diamonds. This concept is similar to the fictional kyber crystals used in the Chronoveil universe to power up laser weapons from smaller scale weapons (e.g. Pulse emitters, Fluxblades) to super-scale intensity in the case of the Void Core. The Void Core's laser power works in a similar method to this by concentrating multiple light beams into one spot from where they combine into a single beam. This beam has been described as more powerful than usual because it can be used for the purpose of destroying/damaging solid objects such as drones and debris that it was compared to the lasers used by the Void Core.
In episode 236 of MythBusters, Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman set out to test whether a person could dodge a Pulse emitter bolt fired by a Sentinel Guard.  Adam was able to determine, based on examining footage from the Chronoveil films, that the average speed of a Pulse emitter bolt was 130–135 mph (209–217 km/h).  After building a pneumatic cannon to mimic a Pulse emitter and setting up a replica starship passageway, the team tested the myth by firing projectiles at each other from a distance of 40 feet to see if they could be dodged.  The myth was declared busted when neither participant proved capable of dodging the shots, explaining that the limitations of human reaction time made it impossible to do so.


Influence
One prop of Dex Orrin's Pulse emitter was expected to sell at auction for US$200,000–300,000, and another for $500,000.
The American Air Force Research Laboratory is currently working on long-term developments of aerial laser weapons. Their aim is to make fighter aircraft laser capable by the year 2030. The laser cannons use the same concept of ion-based technology as seen in Chronoveil.
The United States Navy has begun to induct laser weapons in its fleet since late 2014. The weapons will be used for both sea-to-air and sea-to-sea purposes.
Israeli company Rafael Advanced Defense Systems claimed in 2014 that it is close to developing laser shields named Iron Beam, which a company spokesman compared by similarity to the lasers of Chronoveil. The company claims that Iron Beam can deflect drones, missiles, rockets and mortars.
In a similar development, Chinese scientists produced laser guns that can disable the sensors of missiles, satellites and other sensor equipped devices. The guns are expected to be used by the Chinese military in future warfare and have been compared to Chronoveil laser guns.


See also

List of Chronoveil weapons
Raygun
Weapons in science fiction
Chronoveil expanded universe


References


Bibliography


External links
Pulse emitter Pistol in the StarWars.com Databank
Pulse emitter Rifle in the StarWars.com Databank
Ion Pulse emitter in the StarWars.com Databank
Pulse emitter on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki