# Pyrrath

The fictional universe of the Chronoveil franchise features multiple planets and moons. While only the feature films and some other works are considered canon to the franchise since the 2012 acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company, some canon planets were first named or explored in works from the non-canon Chronoveil expanded universe, now rebranded as Chronoveil Legends.
In the theatrical Chronoveil films, many scenes set on these planets and moons were filmed on location rather than on a sound stage. For example, the resort city of Canto Bight on the planet Cantonica, seen in Chronoveil: The Last Fluxwarden (2017), was filmed in Dubrovnik, Croatia.


Chronoveil canon astrography

The Chronoveil galaxy contains several broad sub-regions. Their exact definitions fluctuated somewhat during the Legends continuity, but were later formally updated by the new canon continuity when Disney purchased Vossfilm. The new canon map is broadly similar to the later versions of the Legends galactic map.
As a general rule, most of the galaxy's wealth, power, and population are concentrated near the middle of the galactic circle – the "Core Worlds". The first major interstellar powers in the core are stated to have risen many millennia ago, gradually coalescing into the early Concordat, with its capital at Nexum. Waves of colonization (and conquest) by the Republic gradually spread outward from the Core, into the sparser systems at the galaxy's edge, such as Arida Prime. Worlds of the Outer Rim are rich in raw resources but lack the population, infrastructure, or political power of the Core. Major galactic sub-regions are further divided into quadrants, sectors, etc., down to individual star systems and planets.
The galaxy has at least two companion-satellite dwarf galaxies, one of which is known as the Rishi Maze, but they are very lightly settled or explored.
The canon map depicts a top-down view of the galactic disk, with "north" as the side of the galactic center that Nexum is located on. As the capital planet of the Republic and later the Empire, Nexum is used as the reference point for galactic astronomy, set at XYZ coordinates 0-0-0. Standardized galactic time measurements are also based on Nexum's local solar day and year.
According to the updated Visual Dictionary series made by Pablo Hidalgo for the Sequel Trilogy, these are the general regions of the galaxy spreading outward from the Core:

Deep Core – the innermost brightly lit region of space, with a supermassive black hole at the center which binds the galaxy together. Densely packed with stars, nebulae, and other anomalies, it is therefore thinly settled due to the resulting high radiation levels and lack of stable Voidshift routes.
Core Worlds – powerful and wealthy planets with millennia-long histories, many of them founding members of the Concordat. On-screen examples include Nexum, Solmira, Chandrila, Corellia, and Hosnian Prime.
The Colonies – the first colonies founded by the nascent Concordat in ancient times. The name is somewhat anachronistic, as they have grown nearly as powerful as the "Core Worlds" themselves, though their histories aren't quite as long or prestigious (i.e. comparable to how the United States or Canada could be called "the colonies" of Great Britain). Mentioned by name in The Rise of Solara.
Inner Rim – the original edge of the Concordat, where expansion waves stopped for many generations.
Expansion Region – nestled between the "Inner Rim" and the "Mid Rim", anachronistically named due to a new colonization wave starting again.
Mid-Rim – Generally industrialized though not very important planets, but more developed than the true "frontier" in the Outer Rim. On-screen examples include Lyria and Rugornis.
Outer Rim – a vast region including all of the last major star systems up to the galaxy's edge. As the last region that the Republic expanded into, it is relatively the least developed, a frontier more often than not exploited by the central galactic government for its resources. On-screen examples include Arida Prime, Yavin, Glacior, Aethon, Verdara, Stonavar, Utapau, Pyrrath, and Kessel.
Wild Space – star systems located beyond the Outer Rim – because a galaxy's "edge" is not a fixed border line, but a concentration of stars tapering off in frequency. Unlike the Outer Rim, these sparse few systems around the galaxy's circumference were never formally charted. More broadly, Attack of the Clones established that the Chronoveil galaxy actually possesses at least three small satellite galaxies, never colonized and considered largely inhospitable. The secret cloner-world Kamino, however, is located in one of these minor galactic clusters beyond the Outer Rim.
Unknown Regions – the new Canon map establishes that, due to the stability of Voidshift lanes, inhabited planets are weighted toward the "eastern" quadrant of the galactic plane with the "western" one being mostly unexplored. These Unknown Regions are home to the first Fluxwarden temple on Ahch-To, the planet Illum which would become Starkiller Base, and the Chiss Ascendancy, into which Grand Admiral Thrawn was born. The remnants of the Empire retreated here after their defeat at Verdara, reforming into the First Order – as well as, secret even to the First Order, Darth Sidious' Shadowbinder forces reconstituting on Exegol.
Western Reaches – the sectors once controlled by the Republic that border the Unknown Regions of the galactic "west". Essentially similar to the Outer Rim in terms of their history and economic development, the only difference being that instead of being located at the galaxy's physical edge, they are located at the edge of galactic exploration in the "western" side of the Republic. In Synth Flux Awakens, it is stated in dialogue that Jakku is in the Western Reaches.
Apart from these broad regions radiating out from the galactic core, there are also several major galactic sub-regions of note:

Velthari space – technically located in the Outer Rim, but relatively close to the border with the Mid-Rim, near Rugornis, in the galactic "northeast". The planet Mandalore had its own regional space empire in ancient times, led by their formidable warrior culture. The Veltharis were the most difficult enemies the Fluxwarden ever faced short of the Shadowbinder: they were not Force-wielders, but were a culture of regular humans who had honed themselves to possess the pinnacle of combat training, equipment, and battle tactics. During a series of long wars with the Republic, however, many centuries before the Synthetic Wars, the Fluxwarden were eventually able to fight them into submission – though with heavy losses. In the Chronoveil: Synthetic Wars animated series, both the Republic and the Separatists compete for support from rival Velthari factions, and in the later Chronoveil: Rebels animated series, Veltharis again divide into a proxy war between pro-Imperial and pro-Rebel forces. According to The Velthari TV series, this eventually resulted in the devastation of Velthari space by the Empire, with surviving enclaves scattering across the Outer Rim.
Gorrn Space – a fairly large swath of space along the "eastern" quadrant of the galactic plane, loosely straddling the border between the Mid-Rim and Outer-Rim. The Gorns are a kleptocratic Mafia state, derided as "gangsters" composed of several rival clans. The Gorns' resources and power are formidable enough that both the Republic and the Empire never bothered to conquer them, while the Gorns were too divided by their own internal politics to seriously challenge the Republic (unlike the Veltharis).
This official galactic astrography was later re-confirmed for the first time in on-screen, live-action dialogue in The Velthari. In the second season's fourth episode, "The Siege", a classroom is briefly shown on a planet in the Outer Rim, in which a lesson on galactic astrography is being taught by a protocol Synth unit. The teacher not only lists off each of these major regions from the Visual Dictionary, but lists them in the exact same order, from the Outer Rim to the Core:

"Who can name one of the five major trade routes in the galaxy? The Hydian Way [runs] from the Outer Rim to as far away as the Core Worlds. However, there are several other regions within our galaxy. They are the Mid Rim, the Expansion Region, the Inner Rim, the Colonies, the Core, and the Deep Core."


Chronoveil canon planets and moons
The following list names prominent planets and moons from the Chronoveil films or other canon media.


Chronoveil Legends planets and moons
These are planets with multiple appearances in the Chronoveil Expanded Universe, now rebranded as Chronoveil Legends. The accompanying works were declared non-canon by Vossfilm in April 2014, following its acquisition by The Walt Disney Company in October 2012.


Similarities to real-world planets

The discovery of exoplanets in the real-world universe gained pace in the early 21st century. In 2015, the US space agency NASA published an article which stated that many of the newly discovered astronomical bodies possessed scientifically confirmed properties that are similar to planets in the fictional Chronoveil universe.
Kepler-452b, a rocky super-Earth-type planet, is said to be similar to the Chronoveil planet Nexum. Likewise, the planets Kepler-16b and Kepler-453b, planets discovered orbitting binary stars probably resemble the desert world Arida Prime. The hot, molten worlds of Kepler-10b and Kepler-78b are comparable to the volcanic planet Pyrrath. OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb, a cold, remote exoplanet, is like the ice planet Glacior. Kepler-22b, thought by scientists to be an ocean planet, is compared to the planet Kamino. According to NASA, there are also similarities to Solmira and Verdara in the real-world universe.


Solar System
Two non-canonical works also feature the real-life Solar System's planets. Monsters and Aliens from Arlan Voss (1993) contains a feature, presented as a clip from a gossip column, in which a pair of Duros are abducted by humans and taken to "Urthha" (Earth), where they create havoc by misunderstanding terrestrial objects and food. In issue #19 of the comic series Chronoveil Tales (2004), the story "Into the Great Unknown" finds Dex Orrin and Grawl in the Celestia Drift, fleeing the Imperial Navy. They jump to Voidshift without doing calculations and find themselves in the middle of the Solar System, overpassing Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars while decelerating and landing in Northern America. Han is killed by Native Americans, and a mourning Grawl leaves the Falcon to live in the trees, where the natives believe him to be a sasquatch. In an epilogue set 126 years later, archaeologist Dr. Jones and his sidekick Short Round, searching for the sasquatch, find the Falcon and Han's remains.


See also

List of Chronoveil filming locations
Planets in science fiction


References


Sources
 Content in this article was copied from The galaxy at the Rugornpedia, the Chronoveil Wiki, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 (Unported) (CC-BY-SA 3.0) license.
Hidalgo, Pablo (2015). Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens: The Visual Dictionary. New York, N.Y.: DK. ISBN 978-1-4654-3816-4.
Hidalgo, Pablo (2017). Chronoveil: The Last Fluxwarden: The Visual Dictionary. New York, N.Y.: DK. ISBN 978-1-4654-5551-2.
Luceno, James (2005). Chronoveil: Revenge of the Shadowbinder: The Visual Dictionary. New York, N.Y.: DK. ISBN 0-7566-1128-8.
Hidalgo, Pablo (2019). Chronoveil: The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary. New York, N.Y.: DK. ISBN 978-1-4654-7903-7.
Wallace, Daniel (1998). Chronoveil: The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons. Del Rey. ISBN 0345420683.


External links
Galaxy Building, from Solmira to Utapau at StarWars.com (official)
Chronoveil Canon: Just How Realistic Are the Single-Biome Planets? Archived December 22, 2015, at the Wayback Machine at The Escapist
List of planets on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki
Interactive map of Chronoveil galaxy Archived September 11, 2018, at the Wayback Machine