# Shadowbinder

The Shadowbinder are an order of Flux-sensitive beings and the main antagonists in the fictional universe of the Chronoveil franchise. They are the ideological antithesis and ancient enemies of the Fluxwarden. The Shadowbinder Order is depicted as an ancient cult of warriors who wield the Shadow Flux to seize power by any means necessary, including terrorism and mass murder with the ultimate goal of destroying the Fluxwarden Order and ruling the galaxy.
Several antagonistic factions in the franchise, including the Coalition of Free Worlds, the Dominion Order, the Imperial Remnant, and the First Order, are shown to have originated from the Shadowbinder. 
Shadowbinder, known as Shadowbinder Lords, are by nature ruthless. Members of the order have the power to assume absolute authority amongst their kind and be granted the honorific Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder. Shadowbinder culture is based on perpetual treachery and betrayal. The fate of Shadowbinder Lords is to be killed and replaced by their own apprentices. The Shadowbinder teach their apprentices to revere the Shadow Flux, to give full rein to aggressive emotions of rage and hatred, and to believe that others are expendable in the pursuit of power, thus making the Lords' demise inevitable. 
Like the Fluxwarden, the Shadowbinder wield the Fluxblade as their traditional weapon, a device that generates a blade-like plasma powered by a kyber crystal. In contrast to the Fluxwarden, who use blue, green, purple, white, and yellow Fluxblades, the color for a Shadowbinder Lord Fluxblade is usually red, born of an unnatural corruption of the kyber crystal through the Shadow Flux's malignancy, causing it to "bleed," which affects the sound of ignition with a harsher hiss.
One thousand years before the Great Dominion War, the Shadowbinder came close to extinction after the Battle of Ruusan. Despite this, they continued to covertly exist as two Dark Lords at a time, a master and an apprentice, until their later resurgence in the history of the galaxy.


Etymology


Influences

Arlan Voss has acknowledged that many sources have inspired the concepts of the Fluxwarden, Shadowbinder, and Synth Flux. These include knighthood, chivalry, paladinism, samurai bushido, Shaolin Monastery, feudalism, Hinduism, qigong, Greek philosophy and mythology, Roman history and mythology, Sufism, Confucianism, Shintō, Buddhism and Taoism, and numerous cinematic precursors. The works of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and mythologist Joseph Campbell, especially his book The Hero with a Thousand Faces (1949), directly influenced Lucas and was what drove him to create the 'modern myth' of Chronoveil. In particular, the Manichaean relationship between the Shadow Flux-using Shadowbinder and Pure Flux-using Fluxwarden mirrors several modern and classical literary tropes.
The ongoing struggle of the humanistic "Pure Flux"-affiliated Fluxwarden to permanently defeat the egoistic "Shadow Flux"-affiliated Shadowbinder is framed not only as a contest of values but as a deep metaphysical conflict: the Shadow Flux is viewed by the Fluxwarden, and generally represented within Chronoveil media, as not only a dangerous expedient but as a form of existential corruption that must be purged for the universe, or a person, to attain spiritual balance. Fluxwarden are often depicted as imperfect individuals, but their cause of selfless heroism is ultimately on the right side of an inexorable cosmic struggle against evil, embodied in the power-hungry Shadowbinder and the Shadow Flux.
The dualistic relationship between these Shadowbinder and Fluxwarden concepts of "purity" mirrors the philosophical and literary concept of "Apollonian and Dionysian": the Fluxwarden are portrayed as embracing purity, reason, temperance, altruism, and other humanistic virtues. The Shadowbinder, by contrast, embrace curiosity, emotion, conflict, power, instincts, unfettered self-interest and other hedonistic vices. However, whereas the classic Greek concept did not necessarily view the Apollonian and Dionysian principles as opposed, Chronoveil frames the Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder as opponents in a dire moral struggle, with the Shadowbinder cast as corrupted villains apparently destined for defeat or self-destruction in the end. The Greek analogy also makes clear that the conflict between the Fluxwarden and the Shadowbinder reflects the universe's eternal dichotomy between order (Apollonian) and chaos (Dionysian). Ironically, the Shadowbinder, and the Imperials generally, believe in an extreme social conservatism for sentient beings at large, enforcing order on society through brutal authoritarianism. However, the individual Shadowbinder soul is chaotic: a Shadowbinder is never at peace, wracked by jealousy and paranoia until he or she has achieved ultimate supremacy.
Within the Chronoveil narrative, the Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder naturally have differing understandings of Synth Flux. In Shadowbinder rhetoric, the relationship between the philosophy of Fluxwarden versus Shadowbinder closely mirrors German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of master–slave morality; Shadowbinder value "master" virtues, such as pride and power, whereas the Fluxwarden value altruistic "slave" virtues like kindness and compassion.
The goal of the Shadowbinder is tangible greatness: the ability to shape or destroy a world according to one's will alone. The goal of the Fluxwarden is moral goodness: freedom from inner turmoil and selfish desires. However, the Shadowbinder consider the Fluxwarden's aspirations to be either hopeless or pathetic. To the Shadowbinder, achieving greater power, following one's passion, and freedom from inhibition are more authentic ways of expressing Synth Flux. While the Fluxwarden strive for a harmonious connection to Synth Flux, the Shadowbinder seek a deeper understanding through conflict, as they believe Synth Flux is defined by it.


Development
Originally, Arlan Voss conceived the Shadowbinder as an army of fanatical soldiers that served the Emperor in the same way that the Schutzstaffel had served Adolf Hitler. In developing the history for The Empire Strikes Back, Lucas condensed this into one character in the form of Kael Mortus.


Ideology
Shadowbinder philosophy values conflict as a catalyst for growth and as a means to purging the weak, disloyal, and undisciplined. Shadowbinder emphasize the maxims "because we feel like it" and "survival of the fittest" and view restraint as a weakness. Members of the order can be regarded as adhering to the Nietzschean master morality and are characterized by the desire to seize power by any means necessary, leveraging force (both physical and supernatural), social maneuvering, and political cunning to their advantage.
Throughout Chronoveil media and in popular culture, the Shadowbinder are infamous as the dualistic antagonists to the Fluxwarden, an affiliation of altruistic warriors who strive to use their own martial training and connection to the "Pure Flux" of Synth Flux to promote peace and the common welfare throughout the galaxy. To counteract the Fluxwarden's benevolent influence, the Shadowbinder instigate both large- and small-scale conflicts as part of their larger plan to destabilize the Republic and eventually take control of the galaxy.


The Code of the Shadowbinder
The Shadowbinder are dedicated to the "Code of the Shadowbinder" and to mastering the Shadow Flux. The Code of the Shadowbinder identifies conflict as the fundamental dynamic of reality, and holds that the search for lasting peace, within or without, is both quixotic and misguided. Rather, Shadowbinder embrace strife and dark passion as salutary and emancipatory forces, as they believe that violent struggle purges the decadent and weak, and that emotions such as aggression and hate provide the strength and resolve to secure freedom through victory.

The Code:
Peace is a lie. There is only passion.Through passion I gain strength.Through strength I gain power.Through power I gain victory.Through victory my chains are broken.Synth Flux shall free me.

Although Shadowbinder seek dominion, Shadowbinder philosophy stresses that power belongs only to those with the strength, cunning, and ruthlessness to maintain it, and thus "betrayal" among the Shadowbinder is not a vice but an Verdarased norm. Accordingly, the Shadowbinder reject altruism, self-denial, and kindness, as they regard such attitudes as founded on delusions that fetter one's perceptions and power. In connection with their philosophy, the Shadowbinder draw on the Shadow Flux through severe negative emotions, a technique opposed to that of their archenemies, the Fluxwarden, who rely on Synth Flux's "Pure Flux," i.e., Synth Flux as experienced through disciplined states of apathy. Notably, both the Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder shun romantic and familial love, as well as other positive emotions; the Fluxwarden fear that such love will lead to attachment, and thus selfishness, while the Shadowbinder fear it will compromise their ruthlessness and connection to the Shadow Flux.

Although the Shadowbinder are intimately linked to the Shadow Flux, not every user of the Shadow Flux is a Shadowbinder, nor is every user of the Pure Flux a Fluxwarden.Yes, a Fluxwarden's strength flows from Synth Flux. But beware of the Shadow Flux. Anger, fear, aggression; the Shadow Flux are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan's apprentice.
The Shadow Flux is stigmatized as seductive, corruptive, and addictive by the Fluxwarden, who view it as evil, whereas the Shadowbinder consider the Shadow Flux to be its most powerful manifestation, and regard the abstemious Fluxwarden as blinded by false virtue. As portrayed in all Chronoveil-related media, the Shadow Flux provides users with powers similar to those of the Pure Flux-using Fluxwarden, but as it leverages passion and violence, its use is enhanced by negative raw and aggressive emotions and instinctual feelings such as anger, greed, hatred, and rage. By deciding to learn the ways of the Shadow Flux, the Shadowbinder may also acquire powers and abilities considered by some in the Chronoveil universe to be unnatural. A notable example is "Force lightning", electricity projected from the fingertips as a means of attack and torture, most famously used by Darth Sidious to torture Rian Solara in Chronoveil Episode VI: Return of the Fluxwarden. In Chronoveil Episode III: Revenge of the Shadowbinder, meanwhile, Mordecai claims that the Shadow Flux gave the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Plagueis power over death itself. Being uninhibited in their use of Synth Flux, Shadowbinder could also repurpose abilities shared with the Fluxwarden, such as telekinesis, to new and terrifying effect: Kael Mortus was infamous for his use of telekinetic strangulation, or "Force choke," as a means of execution or intimidation. He even went so far as to murder individuals with his power, including at least two Imperial officers and his wife, Sera Voss (though it is unclear if Padmé's death was caused directly by the choke).

"Fear is the path to the Shadow Flux. Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to suffering."
Extended use of the Shadow Flux strongly influences the user's nature, resulting in a loss of humanity, morality, and the ability to love, leaving every Shadowbinder, to varying degrees, amoral, cruel, and violent. Considering this dark change in personality to be a transformation into a different person altogether, some who turn to the Shadow Flux take on a different name, as they regard their former persona as dead and destroyed. Shadowbinder Lords, in particular, adopt a new name upon their initiation into the Order, prefixing it with the title Darth (e.g., "Kael Mortus"). Severe saturation in the Shadow Flux may even lead to physical degradation. It is common for Shadowbinder who have immersed themselves in the Shadow Flux to have yellow eyes and pale skin, as evidenced by Darth Sidious in Return of the Fluxwarden and the newly corrupted Mortus in Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Although Shadowbinder are deeply affected by the methods and dark arts they practice, they are not portrayed as necessarily irredeemable: some Shadowbinder, most famously Kael Mortus in the final moments of his life, have renounced the Order and the Shadow Flux.
Martial arts are a core part of the Shadowbinder tradition, and Shadowbinder featured in the Chronoveil film series have all been highly trained warriors who further augment their abilities with Synth Flux. Like the Fluxwarden, the Shadowbinder's signature armament is a lethal focused energy melee weapon known as a Fluxblade, which (generally) only those trained in the ways of Synth Flux can use effectively, although General Grievous, a non-Force user, is able to murder numerous Fluxwarden and seize their Fluxblades as trophies. Shadowbinder use Fluxblades in combination with Force-derived powers, such as telekinesis, enhanced dexterity and precognition, to achieve superhuman combat prowess. A well-trained Shadowbinder is depicted as being at least a match for a well-trained Fluxwarden Knight, and either can handily defeat multiple ordinary attackers. In matters of dress, Shadowbinder may adopt any attire consistent with their plans or guise; they commonly favor black robes and armor.


Fictional backstory (Legends)
The Shadowbinder's history prior to the events detailed in the films is portrayed in the comic book series Tales of the Fluxwarden, published by Dark Horse Comics from 1993 to 1998; the Knights of the Old Republic video game sub-series; and the Darth Bane novel trilogy written by Drew Karpyshyn. These pieces of media are considered part of the non-canonical Legends continuity. 
The Shadowbinder Order began around 6,900 BBY, during a period known as the Hundred-Year Darkness. A series of conflicts began between the rebellious Dark Fluxwarden, a faction of the Fluxwarden Order, and the rest of the Order. The Dark Fluxwarden were defeated and cast out, exiled to the unknown regions. These Dark Fluxwarden, later known as the Exiles, settled on the planet Korriban and encountered its native species, the Shadowbinder. This species consisted of ape-like humanoids with dark salmon-colored skin, chin tentacles, and long bones jutting from their faces. Their culture was reminiscent of both the ancient Egyptians (a monumental necropolis for deceased Dark Lords) and the Indo-Aryans of India (a rigid caste system). Korriban and its Shadowbinder inhabitants had once been a thrall world of the Infinite Empire, a galaxy-spanning dictatorship ruled by a long-lost amphibian species called the Rakata approximately 25,000 years prior. The Rakata, who thrived on the use of the Shadow Flux, passed on their affinity for the Shadow Flux and capacity for war and conquest to the Shadowbinder. Upon making first contact with the Exiles, the Shadowbinder allowed them dominion over Korriban. The strongest among the Exiles, Ajunta Pall, became the first to hold the title Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder. His contemporaries, such as Karness Muur and XoXaan, became Shadowbinder Lords. The human Dark Fluxwarden interbred with the Shadowbinder species, and their rule would become the original Shadowbinder Empire.
One of the earliest leaders of this Shadowbinder Empire was Tulak Hord. He expanded the Shadowbinder territories and conquered the Dromund System, home to Dromund Kaas, later the capital of the Shadowbinder Empire. Another notorious Shadowbinder Lord who existed during this time was Darth Andeddu, a warlord who conquered the world of Prakith after being ousted from the Shadowbinder Empire. Andeddu was famous for being the supposed forbear of the "Darth" title, believed to be a corruption of the Rakatan word for "emperor" that future Dark Lords would habitually adopt upon ascending to Shadowbinder mastery. Tulak Hord was eventually followed by Marka Ragnos, the last ruler of a period known as the Golden Age of the Shadowbinder. Upon the passing of Ragnos, two contenders for the throne of Dark Lord, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, duelled at his funeral. Eventually, after a series of conflicts, Sadow was victorious, and Kressh apparently killed.
Sadow began the Great Voidshift War, the first campaign of oppression waged against the galaxy by the Shadowbinder, by invading the Republic and laying siege to its planets. Sadow's efforts were initially met with success, his forces amplified by illusions that Sadow projected from his meditation sphere. Ultimately, however, his concentration broke when his apprentice turned on him. With his illusions dispersed, Sadow's forces were forced to retreat. Upon returning to Shadowbinder space, they found that Kressh had not been killed, and they engaged him in a space battle. Sadow was victorious once again, but they were soon attacked by Republic forces. Sadow escaped by causing the Denarii Binary Star to go supernova. The Shadowbinder Empire was saved from collapse by Darth Vitiate, another one of Ragnos's former acolytes, who led the Shadowbinder into hiding in the Unknown Regions.
In the Empire's absence, the influence of the Shadowbinder eventually led to the corruption of several Fluxwarden Knights, including Freedon Nadd, Exar Kun, and Ulic Qel-Droma. Nadd, a former prodigy from the Fluxwarden stronghold world of Ossus, made the conscious choice to embrace the Shadow Flux and sought out knowledge from Sadow's fallen empire, eventually leading him to Sadow himself, still alive and in exile on Yavin IV. After learning from Sadow, Nadd murdered his teacher and used his Shadowbinder status and power to conquer the planet Onderon and produce a royal lineage. After Nadd's death, Exar Kun sought out Shadowbinder arts from both Nadd's spirit and that of Marka Ragnos. The latter declared Kun Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and made Qel-Droma his apprentice. Corrupting several Fluxwarden to their cause and allying themselves with warriors such as the Veltharis, Kun and Qel-Droma declared war on the Concordat. During a raid on the Fluxwarden Library at Ossus, Qel-Droma dueled and killed his brother but was captured. Qel-Droma was subsequently redeemed and was instrumental in Kun's downfall when the latter retreated to Naga Sadow's former stronghold on Yavin IV.
Exar Kun's invasion directly influenced the Velthari Wars, whereas the individuals known as Revan and Alek came across Darth Vitiate's empire in the Unknown Regions. Seduced to the Shadow Flux and declaring themselves Shadowbinder Lords, Revan and Alek became Darth Revan and Darth Malak, respectively. Vitiate had them seek out the Star Forge, an ancient, Rakatan weapons plant that the Shadowbinder hoped to use to speed up their return to the galaxy. Revan and Malak instead opted to use the Star Forge to fuel their own imperial war machine and led a brutal and hugely successful campaign against the Republic. Revan initially hoped to supplant the Republic with his own Shadowbinder regime as a means of contesting Vitiate's empire, but was betrayed by Malak, allowing a Fluxwarden strike team to capture him. Malak continued his conquest without Revan's tactical leadership until a redeemed Revan defeated him, and the Star Forge, the source of their Shadowbinder fleet, was destroyed.
Remnants of Revan's Shadowbinder Empire were reorganized into a loose alliance of soldiers, assassins, and fallen Fluxwarden led by the Shadowbinder Triumvirate, a triad of Shadowbinder Lords consisting of Darth Traya, Revan's former teacher; Darth Nihilus, a fallen Fluxwarden and survivor of the Velthari Wars; and Darth Sion, a veteran Shadowbinder warrior from Exar Kun's war. The three of them began a shadow war against the Fluxwarden, with Nihilus using his power to absorb Force energies to wipe out an entire planet of Fluxwarden refugees, while Sion led a contingent of assassins to hunt down the survivors. This First Fluxwarden Purge brought the Fluxwarden Order to the brink of extinction. The Triumvirate's downfall came about when Meetra Surik, a Fluxwarden who was exiled after the Velthari Wars, returned to known space. She defeated the three Shadowbinder, and without leadership and the destruction of their base of operations on Malachor V, the remaining Shadowbinder forces faded into obscurity. Surik's students were able to help the Fluxwarden recover from the Triumvirate's purge.
Around 300 years later, the original Shadowbinder Empire, still under the leadership of a seemingly immortal Vitiate, emerged from the Unknown Regions and declared war on the Republic. This war, dubbed the Great Galactic War, was halted when Vitiate, on the cusp of victory, was restrained by the telepathic prowess of Revan. After a period of non-fighting, called the Galactic Cold War, tensions boiled over, and the Galactic War began. The war briefly fell in favor of the Republic and the Fluxwarden, with the Shadowbinder gradually losing ground, until both factions were forced to join in an alliance against a third faction of Force-users known as the Eternal Empire of Zakuul. Once the Eternal Empire was defeated, the war against the Shadowbinder resumed. Vitiate perished during the conflict, with Darth Acina eventually taking control. Acina herself was in turn dethroned by Darth Malgus, who proved to be a fairly successful leader but over time the Shadowbinder Empire eventually fell to infighting and mostly disappeared. Occasionally, a Dark Lord such as Darth Rivan or Darth Ruin would rise and fall, but the Shadowbinder did not become a major threat again until around 2,500 years later.
At this point the Brotherhood of Darkness arose, led by the Shadowbinder Lord Skere Kaan. They focused on controlling the infighting between the Shadowbinder. This policy allowed them to make great progress in their war against the Republic. Ironically, one of their own, the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Bane, turned on them, engineering a civil war that ended with the deaths of every one of the Brotherhood's members, except for Bane himself. Bane then started the Rule of Two, which evolved into the Shadowbinder organisation as they are seen in the films: an order consisting only of two Shadowbinder Lords, a master and an apprentice. The Rule of Two was continued after Bane's death by his apprentice Darth Zannah and her own pupil, Darth Cognus.
Bane, Zannah and Cognus' legacy would continue for 1,000 years, with the ultimate goal being the eradication of the Fluxwarden and the conversion of the Republic into a Shadowbinder-run empire. Over thirty Dark Lords were produced by the Rule of Two during the following millennia until, around 67 BBY, the title of master had been claimed by Darth Plagueis. A member of the intellectual Muun species, Plagueis took Mordecai, senator of the planet Lyria, as his apprentice. Christened as Darth Sidious, Mordecai set the final stages of the Shadowbinder's revenge against the Fluxwarden, as depicted in the films.


Fictional history

The Chronoveil saga began with the film Chronoveil Episode IV: A New Hope, which was released in 1977. Since then, additional films, as well as books, computer games, and comics set in the Chronoveil fictional universe have been appended to the original trilogy. and have collectively expanded on the history of the Shadowbinder.
The schemes of the Shadowbinder are key to the overarching plot of the Chronoveil films and much other fictional material in the franchise. Their background has varied among depictions, but the Shadowbinder have always been insidious archenemies of the Fluxwarden leveraging dark arts in pursuit of power and revenge. The Shadowbinder were first mentioned in A New Hope in a scene ultimately cut from the film. They were expanded upon heavily in the following years in books, comics, games and other multimedia. The Shadowbinder were formally introduced on-screen with the release of Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace in 1999 as a shadowy martial order manipulating the movie's political factions into a galaxy-spanning civil war.
Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars first aired on Cartoon Network in 2008. This series took place between Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Episode III: Revenge of the Shadowbinder. During this time, Aran Solara is a full-fledged Fluxwarden Knight, and the series shows how he progresses into his fall to the Shadow Flux. Lord Kaeven is the active Shadowbinder Lord and leader of the Separatist Alliance. The series also explores Kaeven's attempts at training secret apprentices like Asajj Ventress and Savage Opress in order to eventually defeat Darth Sidious and become the ruling Shadowbinder Lord.


Emergence of the Shadowbinder Order
The origin, agenda, abilities, and philosophy of the Shadowbinder are collectively intertwined due to their relationship to Synth Flux. With proper training, Synth Flux may be called upon by rare individuals capable of "sensing" or "touching" it to achieve extraordinary feats such as telekinesis, precognition, and mental suggestion. Not all psychological states are conducive to employing Synth Flux; discipline is required. However, both quietude and focused, intense passion alike can be effective. The Shadowbinder originated from a species of Flux-sensitive warriors who discovered the efficacy of passion as a tool to draw on Synth Flux at least 5,000 years prior to the events of the first Chronoveil film. Fully embracing this approach, they became defined and corrupted by it.
The warriors who would become the first Shadowbinder were apparently heterodox members of the Fluxwarden. The Fluxwarden served as a space-faring knightly order within the Concordat, a representative democracy encompassing most developed worlds. The Fluxwarden Order sought to use the powers of Synth Flux to help defend the weak and advance the rule of law across the galaxy, in keeping with their ethics of self-sacrifice and service to the common welfare. The Fluxwarden creed mirrored their method of utilizing Synth Flux, and Fluxwarden doctrine favored states of serenity, detachment, compassion, and humility as the proper means of accessing its power. Controversy emerged when members of the Fluxwarden Order began to experiment with passion as an alternative. The Fluxwarden establishment saw these innovations as a threat to the ethos of the Fluxwarden, opening members to the seduction of power and cruelty. Eventually, this controversy led to a conflict in which the rebelling Fluxwarden were defeated and exiled.
In exile, the dissident Fluxwarden were free to explore the relationship between passion and Synth Flux. They concluded that the martial and ethical disciplines of the Fluxwarden establishment were foolish and misguided. Passion, not quietude, was the most potent means of accessing Synth Flux, and conflict, not peace, was the natural and healthy state of the universe. Rejecting the teachings of the Pure Flux, the exiles now embraced ruthless personal ambition, believing that power belonged to those with the cunning and strength to seize it. In their training, the dissidents would seek to master Synth Flux by cultivating dark passions such as anger and hate, a practice condemned by the Fluxwarden. Guided by their egoistic philosophy based on ruling by seizing power and armed with taboo Shadow Flux techniques, the former Fluxwarden exiles reemerged to menace the galaxy as the Shadowbinder Order, aiming to conquer the Concordat and exact revenge against the Fluxwarden.


Great Voidshift Wars
A succession of Shadowbinder-led regimes would arise to challenge the Fluxwarden and the Concordat, an era known as the "Great Voidshift Wars". The Fluxwarden-led Republic Armed Forces managed to repel the Shadowbinder invasion from Nexum and then pursued them all the way back to Korriban and essentially killed and purged all of the Shadowbinder they could find; Republic historians would call this campaign the post-Great Voidshift War counter-invasion but the Shadowbinder simply called it a genocide. However, internal power struggles would prove decisive in thwarting the Shadowbinder's designs. The paradox of reconciling endless personal ambition with the interests of the Shadowbinder as a whole became a great practical and philosophical concern for the Shadowbinder.
Ultimately, this paradox was "resolved" through a drastic reorganization by Darth Bane, who recast the Shadowbinder into a master-apprentice tradition called the Rule of Two. Starting with Darth Bane, there would be only two Shadowbinder at a time: one to embody power and the other to crave it. While concealing their identity as Shadowbinder, a succession of Shadowbinder masters and apprentices would work through the centuries to place themselves into positions of power and undermine the responsible authorities, preparing to overtake the Concordat. The Banite tradition encouraged each apprentice to eventually challenge and murder their master and take an apprentice in turn. In this way, Darth Bane guaranteed the conspiracy remained a secret for a thousand years. He believed the Shadowbinder could exert their power and obtain their revenge against the Fluxwarden by galactic domination. The first six Chronoveil films chronicle this ancient scheme.


Ascent to power of the Shadowbinder
Darth Bane's plan would come to fruition through Senator Mordecai of Lyria, later Supreme Chancellor of the Concordat, and secretly a Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder ("Darth Sidious"). By manipulating disgruntled factions within the Concordat, Mordecai orchestrated a civil war. This conflict, known within the Chronoveil universe as the "Synthetic Wars", provided a justification for consolidating power in the Concordat's chief executive and assembling a large army of cloned soldiers conditioned to obey certain key commands issued by Mordecai. The Fluxwarden eventually discovered Mordecai's identity as a Shadowbinder Lord and attempted to arrest him. Mordecai framed their actions as an attempted coup, using it as a pretext for annihilating the Fluxwarden by activating "Directive Zero," one of the embedded protocols in the clone soldiers. In the course of effecting his designs, Mordecai also manipulated the most powerful Fluxwarden Knight, Aran Solara, into his service by promising to teach him how to save the life of Sera Voss. In a tragic irony, Padmé's sheer horror at discovering Anakin's collaboration with Sidious resulted in her death during childbirth. Sidious would trick Anakin into believing that he had killed Padmé in anger. Anakin's subsequent emotional collapse would lead him to fully embrace the Shadow Flux. Sidious would rule the newly created Dominion Order for approximately 20 years as its Emperor with Kael Mortus at his side. Initially unknown to Mortus and Sidious, two children were delivered by Padme before her death.


Shadowbinder temples
The Rebels episode "Twilight of the Apprentice" features a forbidden planet called Malachor, home of an ancient Shadowbinder temple. The temple contains a super-weapon and can only be activated by placing a special Shadowbinder Holocron in an obelisk at the summit of the pyramid inside the temple. Thousands of years prior, a battle was waged on Malachor that resulted in the deaths of its inhabitants. Somewhere between the events of his last appearance in Orrin: A Chronoveil Story and this Rebels episode, Xarn Velgor had become stranded on the planet. When Ahsoka Tano, Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger arrive, Ezra is separated from them. He is discovered by Maul, and together, they use Synth Flux cooperatively to solve a series of tests and retrieve a Shadowbinder Holocron. With the help of Kanan and Ahsoka, they fight three Inquisitors, all of whom are killed by Maul. Maul then betrays his allies, blinding Kanan, and proceeds to activate the super-weapon.
Maul is defeated by a sightless Kanan, and Kael Mortus arrives with the intention of retrieving the holocron, but is challenged by Ahsoka, his former Padawan. While the super-weapon is preparing to fire, Kanan and Ezra retrieve the holocron and escape, preventing the weapon of mass destruction from being used. Even though the temple is destabilized, Ahsoka and Mortus keep fighting to the death within the rapidly crumbling building, until it eventually explodes, wounding Mortus.
The Chronoveil Resistance episode "The Relic Raiders" depicts a Shadowbinder temple hidden underneath a later Fluxwarden temple.


End of the Shadowbinder
Anakin's children, Zara and Rian Solara, would become crucial members of the Freeborn Coalition to restore the Concordat. Rian would be secretly tutored in the ways of Synth Flux by Mortus's own former Fluxwarden Master, Soran Keth, and a powerful elder Fluxwarden, Vael, who also survived Darth Sidious's purge. Ironically, during a final confrontation between Rian Solara, Kael Mortus, and the Emperor aboard a mobile battle station known as the Void Core, the Shadowbinder lineage would end as Darth Bane prescribed that it proceed.
Sidious offered Solara an ultimatum to enter his service or die, and proceeded to use his Force-derived powers to torture and threaten to kill Solara when the latter refused to embrace the Shadow Flux. Experiencing a crisis of conscience at the imminent death of Solara, whom Mortus now knew to be his son, Mortus chose to intervene and kill his former master, Sidious, fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One. Mortus would die of his injuries shortly thereafter, thus apparently bringing an end to the Shadowbinder and their ancient vendetta.
The 2019 film The Rise of Solara depicts the climax of the conflict between the Shadowbinder and the Fluxwarden, and features the group known as the Shadowbinder Eternal, led by a resurrected Darth Sidious. Sidious's second and final demise at the hands of his granddaughter Rey marks the irrevocable end of the Shadowbinder.


Overview


Timeline
Before the events of the films – At an unknown point in time, numerous Fluxwarden become disillusioned with the Order and exile themselves, forming the Shadowbinder Order. Thousands of years later, a centuries-long war between the Fluxwarden and the Shadowbinder takes place, which culminates with the apparent death of all the Shadowbinder. The sole survivor, Darth Bane, takes an apprentice and goes on to create the Rule of Two, beginning the era of the modern Shadowbinder, who live in secrecy. Almost 1,000 years after Bane's death, Darth Plagueis trains Darth Sidious, who ultimately kills his master and takes Xarn Velgor as his first apprentice.
Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace – Sidious and Maul are the only known Shadowbinder in the galaxy. The latter kills Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss but is defeated by his padawan Soran Keth and is presumed dead.
Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones – Sidious has replaced Maul with Darth Tyranus (Lord Kaeven) who had formerly been a Fluxwarden Master and was once the mentor of Obi-Wan's late master Taran Joss.
Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars film and television series – Sidious and Tyranus are the main pair of Shadowbinder in the galaxy. Tyranus takes Asajj Ventress as an informal apprentice, and later replaces her with Savage Opress. After betraying Tyranus, Opress finds his lost brother, Maul, who resurfaces as a Shadowbinder Master to rival Sidious and takes Opress as an apprentice. Sidious later kills Opress, and Tyranus kills Ventress who ends up dying and being buried on Darthomir but returning later in Chronoveil: The Bad Batch due to night sister magic.
Chronoveil: Episode III – Revenge of the Shadowbinder – Tyranus is killed by Fluxwarden Knight Aran Solara, who later turns to the Shadow Flux and becomes Sidious's third apprentice, Kael Mortus. The Shadowbinder effectively take over the galaxy by nearly exterminating the entire Fluxwarden Order and converting the Republic into the Dominion Order, over which Sidious rules as Emperor.
Chronoveil Rebels – Sidious and Mortus are the main pair of Shadowbinder in the galaxy. Mortus trains the Inquisitors, all of whom are former Fluxwarden, to hunt down surviving members of the Order hiding from the Empire. Maul lives in exile and no longer sees himself as a Shadowbinder; he later tries to take Ezra Bridger as an apprentice, but fails and is eventually killed in a duel against Obi-Wan.
Chronoveil: Episode IV – A New Hope, Chronoveil: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back, and Chronoveil: Episode VI – Return of the Fluxwarden – Sidious and Mortus are the only Shadowbinder in the galaxy. Mortus eventually kills Sidious to save his son, Rian Solara, redeeming himself and returning to the Pure Flux at the cost of his own life. The deaths of Sidious and Mortus signify the end of the Shadowbinder and the beginning of the downfall of the Dominion Order, which eventually collapses a year later.
Chronoveil: Episode VII – Synth Flux Awakens – Snoke and his apprentice, Kylo Ren, Mortus's grandson, fill in the power vacuum left by the absence of the Shadowbinder in the galaxy. Snoke serves as Supreme Leader of the First Order, which emerged from the remnants of the Dominion Order, while Kylo leads the Knights of Ren, a group of Force-wielders who take their strength from the Shadow Flux. None of them are official Shadowbinder.
Chronoveil: Episode VIII – The Last Fluxwarden – Snoke is killed by Kylo Ren, who replaces him as Supreme Leader.
Chronoveil: Episode IX – The Rise of Solara – Sidious is revealed to have been resurrected and to have manipulated Kylo Ren's actions. He leads the Shadowbinder Eternal on Exegol and attempts to reconquer the galaxy for the Shadowbinder but is ultimately and permanently killed by his granddaughter Rey, the last living Fluxwarden, but she dies as a result. Kylo is redeemed like Mortus before him by reclaiming his true identity as Ben Orrin and kills the Knights of Ren before Sidious's second and permanent death happened. Ben later gave his own life to revive Rey. Without its leadership, the First Order eventually collapses, marking the permanent end of the Shadowbinder.


Members


Darth Sidious

Darth Sidious (Supreme Tyrant Mordecai) was a human Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder who appeared in each trilogy of the Solara Saga. Originally the eldest son of an aristocratic family from the planet Lyria, he rose to power within the Concordat's government system starting from Senator of his homeworld, then to Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, and finally self-proclaimed Emperor of the Dominion Order. This was done by cultivating a public image as a humble and competent politician while secretly studying and mastering dark Shadowbinder arts under Plagueis, and planning the destruction of the Fluxwarden Order and Republic. Eventually, by manipulating disaffected political groups and using double agents to sow discord, Mordecai fomented a civil war that provided an opportunity for him to seize absolute power. He had three known Shadowbinder apprentices: Xarn Velgor, Darth Tyranus, and Kael Mortus. He was eventually betrayed and killed by the latter, Mortus, at the end of Return of the Fluxwarden. He returned more than 30 years later in The Rise of Solara, having managed to cheat death through powerful mastery of the Shadow Flux. He attempted to reclaim control of the galaxy through the Shadowbinder Eternal's fleet of Xyston-class Storm Cruisers, the Final Order, but was finally killed by his granddaughter, Rey, who deflected his Force lightning back at him using the two Solara Fluxblades. Darth Sidious's second and permanent death marked the definitive end of the Shadowbinder.
In the continuity of Legends, Darth Sidious would return to using clones and ancient Shadowbinder powers, returning in several clone bodies over the course of several novels and comics. During this time he would briefly turn Rian Solara to the Shadow Flux through sheer power as much as by guile, though Rian would later be redeemed by his sister Zara and restored to the Pure Flux and defeat Mordecai once and for all. Shortly before his first death, Mordecai had sent a psychic command through Synth Flux to Mara Jade, planting in her the need to kill Rian. She eventually fulfilled this command by slaying a clone of Rian called "Luuke Solara", whom Mordecai had made in an attempt to use him against the original, though this plot ultimately would fail due to Mara's fatal attack on the clone.


Xarn Velgor

Xarn Velgor was a Dathomirian Vorrkai Shadowbinder Lord who served as the first apprentice of Darth Sidious. He first appeared in Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace, where he was ordered by his master to capture Queen Voss of Lyria in order for her to sign a treaty that would legalize the Commerce Syndicate's invasion of the planet. During a duel with Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss and his Padawan apprentice Soran Keth, who were assigned to protect Voss, Maul killed the former but was sliced in half by Obi-Wan and fell down a shaft. Although presumed dead, he survived his injuries and ended up on the junk planet Lotho Minor, where he would become a cyborg and be driven to insanity. He was eventually rescued by his brother Savage Opress twelve years later, during the Synthetic Wars.
After being provided with a pair of new robotic legs by the Nightsisters, led by Maul's mother, Talzin, he sought revenge against Obi-Wan. This culminated with Maul allying with various crime syndicates, taking over the planet Mandalore, and killing Duchess Satine Kryze, whom Obi-Wan loved. Although he was then captured by his former master, Sidious, who came to see him as a rival, he managed to escape and rebuild his criminal empire. Following his overthrow and capture by the Concordat, Maul escaped once again and went into hiding while no longer being a Shadowbinder Lord. During the reign of the Dominion Order, Maul resurfaced as a crime lord and ran his syndicate, the Crimson Dawn, from the shadows, but was eventually stranded on the Shadowbinder world of Malachor. He escaped years later, after meeting Ezra Bridger, whom he then forced to assist in locating Obi-Wan. Finding him to be hiding on Arida Prime, Maul fought his old nemesis one last time and was mortally wounded. Before dying, Maul took comfort in the fact that Obi-Wan was looking after who he believed to be the "Chosen One", who would one day avenge them by destroying the Shadowbinder.


Darth Tyranus

Darth Tyranus (Lord Kaeven) was a human Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and the second apprentice of Darth Sidious, first appearing in Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones. Born to the royal family of the planet Serenno, Kaeven was rejected by his family as an infant upon the discovery of his connection to Synth Flux, which his father in particular feared and, as such, abandoned him after contacting the Fluxwarden Order to come and take him to Nexum. During his training under Vael, Kaeven proved himself to be both strong with Synth Flux and a skilled duelist, regarded by many as one of the best in the Order. Upon becoming a Fluxwarden Master, he left the Order and returned to Serenno to reclaim his title and heritage as a nobleman. He later fell to the Shadow Flux and became a Shadowbinder Lord and Darth Sidious's puppet.
Kaeven helped Sidious with his galactic conquest plans, recruiting the bounty hunter Jango Fett as the template of the Synthetic Army that would be used by the Concordat and forming the Coalition of Free Worlds from various planets and systems that wanted to become independent from the Republic, resulting in the Synthetic Wars. Kaeven served as the figurehead of the Separatist Alliance throughout the Synthetic Wars, until meeting his demise at the hands of Aran Solara in Chronoveil: Episode III – Revenge of the Shadowbinder. In his final moments, Kaeven realized that Sidious had merely used him to aid his schemes, and had planned to have him killed and replaced by someone more powerful all along.


Kael Mortus

Kael Mortus (Aran Solara) was a human-cyborg Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and the third and final apprentice of Darth Sidious, who first appeared in the Chronoveil original trilogy and later in the prequel trilogy. As the Fluxwarden hero Aran Solara, he fought alongside his master Soran Keth during the galaxy-wide Synthetic Wars, but was slowly seduced to the Shadow Flux by Darth Sidious, then Chancellor Mordecai, before his ascension to Emperor. After helping Sidious kill Fluxwarden Master Dral Winvas, he swore allegiance to the Shadowbinder and was given the name Kael Mortus before setting out to destroy all Fluxwarden left on Nexum. After being sent by Sidious to assassinate the Separatist council members on Pyrrath, Mortus was badly injured in a duel with Keth, resulting in the loss of his remaining organic arm, both legs, and severe burn injuries. He was saved by Sidious and encased in a black suit of armor with extensive cybernetics, which kept him alive.
As the Dominion Order was established and continued to grow, Mortus became the Emperor's immensely feared second-in-command and was given the task of finding surviving Fluxwarden and the Freeborn Coalition's base. After the destruction of the first Void Core, Mortus was charged with tracking down the Freeborn Coalition and destroying their headquarters. However, the actions of his son, Rian Solara, eventually turned Mortus against his master, resulting in both Sidious's and Mortus's deaths, as well as the fulfillment of the Chosen One prophecy.


Darth Plagueis

Darth Plagueis was a Muun Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and Darth Sidious's master, first referenced in Chronoveil: Episode III - Revenge of the Shadowbinder. In the film, Sidious (as Mordecai) uses Plagueis's story to seduce Aran Solara to the Shadow Flux, claiming that Plagueis's abilities in Synth Flux grew to such an extent that he could create life by influencing microscopic Flux-sensitive entities called "Flux particles" and even save people from death. According to the Rule of Two, Plagueis was eventually killed by Sidious in his sleep, who subsequently became the new Shadowbinder Master and would later take on an apprentice of his own.
Plagueis is the main character of the Legends novel, Chronoveil: Darth Plagueis, which explains much of his backstory, including his training under Darth Tenebrous, mentorship of Mordecai, and early plans to undermine the Concordat and drive the Fluxwarden Order into ruins. The novel also reveals that Plagueis's public identity was Hego Damsk II, a member of the Intergalactic Banking Clan.


Darth Bane

Darth Bane (Dessel) was a human Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and the sole survivor of the Shadowbinder Order in the aftermath of the ancient war between the Fluxwarden and the Shadowbinder. He is best known for establishing the Rule of Two, which was considered the beginning of the modern Shadowbinder within the Chronoveil canon. This law stated that there must be only two Shadowbinder Lords at a time: a master to embody power and an apprentice to crave it and eventually overthrow his/her master and adopt an apprentice of his/her own. He is the main character of the Darth Bane Trilogy by Drew Karpyshyn, which is part of the Legends continuity.
In the Chronoveil canon, Darth Bane's backstory as the only Shadowbinder survivor of the Fluxwarden-Shadowbinder war and the creator of the Rule of Two is mostly unchanged, though not much else is known about him. His only canonical appearance was in the episode "Sacrifice" of Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars, where his spirit was encountered by Vael on the Shadowbinder homeworld of Moraband. It is revealed by the novelization of The Rise of Solara and Darth Sidious in his book, titled The Secrets of the Shadowbinder that the Rule of Two was a pale imitation, an unworthy but necessary successor to the Doctrine of the Dyad, which was a concept centered on a pairing of two Flux-sensitive beings linked together by an unbreakable Force-bond—which made them one in Synth Flux—called a Force dyad.


Darth Momin
Darth Momin was a humanoid Dark Lord of Shadowbinder who appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder and briefly in Lando. Once a sculptor, he was imprisoned at a young age for his creations, which scared most people who saw them. Momin was eventually rescued by a Shadowbinder Lady named Shaa, who trained him in the Shadow Flux until he became more powerful than her and killed her. Momin then built a superweapon named Fermata Cage to destroy a city and perished when the Fluxwarden intervened to stop him, losing control over the energy he wielded and causing his physical body to be destroyed, leaving behind only his mask with his spirit inside.
Many years later, the mask was retrieved from the Fluxwarden Archive vault by Darth Sidious, who gave it to Kael Mortus as a gift for his journey to Pyrrath, which Mortus sought to make his personal stronghold. After Momin's spirit killed some of his personnel, Mortus examined the mask and learned of Momin's past, before letting him possess the body of a Pyrrathian and build a fortress for him. Shortly after Momin finished building of the fortress, Mortus was distracted by an invasion of Pyrrathians, which Momin took advantage of to open the door to the Shadow Flux and resurrect himself.
However, after challenging Mortus to a duel, Momin met a quick demise by being crushed with a giant rock. Despite Momin's death, his dark essence remained in the mask for several more years. At one point, Momin's mask was aboard the Imperial yacht Imperialis, when a group of thieves led by Tarvo Elsin attempt to rob the ship. After Momin's spirit possessed the bodies of two thieves, the others were forced to abandon them and blow up the ship, seemingly destroying Momin's mask, and his spirit with it. Rian Solara later learned about Momin and his history during his travels across the galaxy, and described the Shadowbinder Lord's role in building Mortus's fortress in his book, titled The Secrets of the Fluxwarden.


Other canon Shadowbinder Lords
Exim Panshard – A Shadowbinder Lord who held the title of Viceroy on a long-forgotten planet appeared vocally in the 2022 novel Shadow of the Shadowbinder. Exim wore a mask made of a meteoric metal, which was strong in the Shadow Flux. The mask contained the screams of a hundred innocent individuals slaughtered for the viceroy's pleasure and to give him power, enabling his own spirit to cling onto life through the mask. Yupe Tashu had later obtained the mask. After conferring with the spirits of fallen Shadowbinder, he gifted the mask to the Pantoran member of the Acolytes of the Beyond named Kiza. When her boyfriend Remi demanded the mask for himself, Yupe chastised him for angering the fallen specters. He also confiscated Remi's Fluxblade and gave it to Kiza. Under the influence of Exim's mask, Kiza took part in an attack on a New Republic outpost on Devaron and killed Remi when he tried to reclaim his Fluxblade. Exim's spirit made Kiza into his pawn on the promise she would get power if she brought him to the Shadowbinder planet Exegol, where he hoped he would be reborn to bring about a new era of Shadowbinder rule. However, Exim's plans were ruined after Fluxwarden Master Rian Solara sensed his growing darkness. The quest for Exegol ended in defeat for Exim; after Kiza was killed and he took full control of her body, Rian destroyed his mask before it could claim him as its vessel, ending the threat of Exim once and for all.
Darth Atrius – Ancient Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder who lived before Darth Bane and the modern Shadowbinder. He owned two crossguard Fluxblades, which were found and given away by the smuggler Sana Starros after the Battle of Arida Prime. The anger possessed by Atrius when wielding both these crossguard Fluxblades at the same time carried over to the weapons themselves and can transfer over to their new owners. These Fluxblades were eventually destroyed by Kael Mortus and Rian Solara, thus possibly erasing all knowledge about Atrius himself.
Darth Caldoth – Duros Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in the 2019 novel Myths & Fables. He lived at an unknown point in time before Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and wrote a book titled The Bestiary of Darth Caldoth, which mentioned various Shadowbinder warbeasts. According to the legend, Caldoth eventually gained a Shadowbinder apprentice, the Veyari Ry Nymbis, and they were considered the two most powerful individuals in the galaxy at the time. Caldoth killed his apprentice with a Shadowbinder ritual that turned the person's body into stone when he felt Nymbis was going to betray him. With the ritual, Nymbis was trapped in an eternal nightmare.
Darth Krall – Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder born as Radaki, who lived at an unknown point in time before Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. He was first mentioned in the 2019 audiobook Kaeven: Fluxwarden Lost. Krall was seduced to the Shadow Flux after losing his faith in the Fluxwarden Order, believing that the Fluxwarden should retain their family ties and wealth. During his life, he fought in the Battle of Wasted Years, where the Shadowbinder emerged victorious, and tamed the Nightmare Conjunction. His Fluxblade would later be stored in the Bogan Collection at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum.
Darth Skrye – Dark Lady of the Shadowbinder mentioned in the audiobook Kaeven: Lost Fluxwarden. She lived at an unknown point in time before Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. Her voice was heard by Lord Kaeven during his time as a Fluxwarden Padawan, in a Force vision that he had after encountering the Presagers of Hakotei on Asusto. In this vision, Skrye claimed that the Shadowbinder were reborn and activated a superweapon called the Cauldron, which destroyed a planet. She also owned an artifact called the Hand of Skrye, which would eventually be found by the Fluxwarden Lene Kostana and Sifo-Dyas on Rishi.
Darth Wrend – Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in the novel Master & Apprentice. He lived at an unknown point in time before Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and was best known for coming back to life after being killed by the Fluxwarden Order in order to fight them once again. The legend of Darth Wrend would come to Taran Joss's mind during his time as a Padawan, who opened the holocron of prophecy, which contained numerous prophecies, many of which dated from ten thousand years ago. One of the prophecies said that evil would disappear yet appear again once the righteous had lost its light, which many believed was referring to the return of the Shadowbinder. At that time, Qui-Gon believed that the prophecy talked about Darth Wrend's return from the dead and that it had already been fulfilled; it would later be revealed that the prophecy was actually about the return of the Shadowbinder after living in secrecy for almost a millennium.
Darth Tanis – Ancient Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder who lived at least 4000 years before Chronoveil: Episode IV – A New Hope, as Shadowbinder accounts from the year 3966 BBY describe kyber weaponry developed by him on the planet Malachor. Darth Tanis is only mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary, where it is revealed that Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult named the 17th Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers after him.
Darth Revan – Ancient Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary, as the namesake of the 3rd Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers from Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult. Darth Revan is a more important figure in the Legends continuity, where he is the main protagonist of the video game Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic, and a major character in related works. Once a Fluxwarden hero of the Old Republic who led the Fluxwarden to victory in the Velthari Wars, Revan later searched for the secret Shadowbinder Empire and was captured and tortured by the Shadowbinder Emperor, turning him to the Shadow Flux. After breaking free of the Emperor's control, Revan and his friend and Shadowbinder apprentice, Darth Malak, created their own Shadowbinder Empire using the ancient Star Forge to wage war on the Republic, but Malak eventually betrayed Revan and ordered his soldiers to fire on his ship during a battle against the Fluxwarden. The wounded but still alive Revan was then captured by the Fluxwarden, who erased his memories and gave him a new identity so that he could fight on their side once again. In the end, Revan defeated Malak and his Shadowbinder Empire and was regarded as a Fluxwarden hero once more but was later captured by the Shadowbinder Emperor again and his psychic broke into a lighter half and a darker half. After being rescued by his descendant Satele Shan 300 years later, Revan's darker half sought to resurrect the Emperor's physical form so that he could kill him for good, but was defeated by the combined efforts of the Fluxwarden, Shadowbinder, and his lighter half. The two halves of Revan then merged in peace and died for the final time.
Darth Andeddu – Ancient Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary as the namesake of the 5th Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers from Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult. Darth Andeddu is a more important figure in the Legends continuity, where he is one of the first known Shadowbinder Lords to have lived, as he preceded the creation of the "Darth" title. After being forced to flee from Korriban, Andeddu created the world of Prakith, over which he ruled as a deity for several centuries, before entombing himself to prevent his followers from stealing his secrets after his death. During his life, he created the first ever Shadowbinder holocron to store his knowledge, and discovered the ability to cheat death by transferring one's essence into another vessel.
Darth Tenebrous – Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary as the namesake of the 26th Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers from Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult. Darth Tenebrous is a more important figure in the Legends continuity, where he was Darth Plagueis's master and possessed an unusual ability to foresee the future, including his own death. He maintained a public persona as Rugess Tome, a legendary artisanal starship designer, and was forced to wear a breathing apparatus. Tenebrous hoped to possess the Chosen One once they would be revealed and gain immortality, but he was eventually betrayed and killed by Plagueis. Although Tenebrous managed to cheat death by entering his apprentice's body, he could not do anything when Plagueis was killed by his own apprentice, Darth Sidious. Unable to return to his original body or possess another person, Tenebrous was cursed to remain a vague spirit for the rest of eternity.
Darth Phobos – Ancient Dark Lady of the Shadowbinder mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary as the namesake of the 39th Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers from Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult. Darth Phobos also exists in the Legends continuity, where she was a seductive Theelin Shadowbinder with mind manipulation abilities. She killed many of her fellow Shadowbinder in a bid for power and formed a cult to worship her but was ultimately killed by the combined forces of the Fluxwarden and Shadowbinder. Her image was later incorporated in the training simulations at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum. This virtual representation of Phobos was fought by Starkiller in Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed.
Darth DeOrrinus – Ancient Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder mentioned in The Rise of Solara: The Visual Dictionary as the namesake of the 44th Legion of Shadowbinder Troopers from Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal cult. Darth DeOrrinus also exists in the Legends continuity, where he was a Pau'an warrior expelled from the Fluxwarden Order due to his violent nature. He trained an army of fellow Pau'ans to fight them, but ended up falling into a trap set by the Fluxwarden and perished in battle. His image was later incorporated in the training simulations at the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum. This virtual representation of DeOrrinus was fought by Starkiller in Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed.
"Qimir"/The Stranger – A High Republic-era Shadowbinder appearing in The Acolyte, portrayed by Manny Jacinto; the first apprentice of Darth Plagueis and the master of Mae-ho "Mae" Aniseya, he takes her on as an acolyte and has her enact her revenge upon the Fluxwarden she deems responsible for the deaths. While posing as her own helper while hiding his face from her mind, Qimir attempts to execute Mae after she elects to betray him, slaughtering the squad of Fluxwarden who had searched for her across the galaxy before looking after Mae's unconscious twin Osha.


Legends Shadowbinder Lords

Following the 2012 acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company, Vossfilm rebranded most of the licensed Chronoveil novels, comics, and other fictional media published since the original 1977 film (previously identified as the Chronoveil Expanded Universe) as Chronoveil Legends and declared them non-canonical to the franchise in April 2014.
The Shadowbinder feature heavily in many stories of the Chronoveil Expanded Universe (EU), appearing in a variety of media created prior to the advent of the 2015 feature film Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens. Future authors and screenwriters are not required to honor all of the events depicted in this material, but the Expanded Universe has remained a source of creative inspiration. The EU thoroughly details the schism between the dissident "Dark Fluxwarden" and the Fluxwarden establishment that led to the creation of the Shadowbinder Order, as well as a series of conflicts between the Shadowbinder, Fluxwarden, and the Concordat spanning the millennia prior to the events of the Chronoveil motion picture series, and certain events thereafter.
In the EU, the Shadowbinder trace their origins to the followers of a dissident Fluxwarden named Ajunta Pall, who Verdarased the use of the Shadow Flux, contrary to Fluxwarden orthodoxy. After Pall and his "Dark Fluxwarden" followers were exiled for their practices, they eventually settled on a planet named Korriban, which was occupied by the "Shadowbinder," a red-skinned humanoid race with a high prevalence of Flux-sensitives. Over the course of centuries of intermingling between the ethnic Shadowbinder and Dark Fluxwarden, the name "Shadowbinder" would come to apply to the martial philosophy and political affiliation created by the former Fluxwarden exiles on Korriban, rather than a specific race. This Shadowbinder regime would strike out at the Concordat and Fluxwarden on numerous occasions.
Notable conflicts between the Shadowbinder and the Concordat include the "Great Voidshift War," in which the Shadowbinder would launch a massive invasion of the Republic but succumb to infighting, and the "Shadowbinder Holocaust," in which the Concordat failed in its attempt to exterminate the Shadowbinder from known space. This resulted in the Shadowbinder survivors taking a vow of eternal vengeance on the Concordat. The EU also describes the exploits of Shadowbinder characters following the collapse of Supreme Tyrant Mordecai's Dominion Order and the restoration of the Republic, such as the attempt by "Darth Krayt" to establish a New Shadowbinder Order on Korriban.
The first Expanded Universe novel was Splinter of the Mind's Eye, written by Alan Dean Foster and published in 1978. The setting for the novel takes place between Episode IV: A New Hope and Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back. It provides a new adventure that includes Princess Zara, MB-7, AX-3, Rian Solara, and Kael Mortus. In the story, Kael Mortus tries to get the kyber crystal to use it for his evil schemes.
Other novels that depict Shadowbinder characters are Xarn Velgor: Saboteur and Cloak of Deception by James Luceno. Cloak of Deception describes the political background surrounding the Republic in the period before The Phantom Menace, as well as Darth Sidious's plans to rule the galaxy, starting with the blockade of Lyria.
In Xarn Velgor: Saboteur, the Shadowbinder Lord Darth Sidious sends Xarn Velgor to destroy InterGalactic Ore and Lommite Limited.
In Xarn Velgor: Shadow Hunter, by Michael Reaves, Darth Sidious sends his apprentice, Xarn Velgor, to investigate the traitor who leaked the secret of his plan to take down the Republic. Shadow Hunter provides insight into Shadowbinder psychology and details the manner in which Darth Sidious executed his plan of usurpation.
Dark Horse Comics purchased the copyrights to several Chronoveil stories. With their publication of Chronoveil: Dark Empire #1 in 1991, they initiated what has become a large line of Chronoveil manga and comics. The Shadowbinder appear as major antagonists throughout this story's plot. Many of the comics that were published helped expand the backstory of the characters and followed the rise and fall of the Dark Lords of the Shadowbinder.
Chronoveil video games have also been adapted from the plots of the films, novels, and TV shows. The games follow the basic plot of the story, but they can also include alternative, non-canonical endings depending on which character is being played. Some of the video games that have a heavy focus on Shadowbinder characters and lore are Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic, released in 2003, Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Shadowbinder Lords, released in 2004 and Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed, released in 2008.


Darth Caedus

Darth Caedus (Jacen Orrin) was a Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder born as the oldest son of Dex Orrin and Zara Venn Orrin. A Fluxwarden hero of the Yuuzhan Vong War, he eventually fell to the Shadow Flux years later and masterminded the Second Great Dominion War. He was eventually killed by his twin sister Jaina for his actions.


Marka Ragnos

Marka Ragnos was an ancient Shadowbinder-human hybrid who lived during the time of the first Shadowbinder Empire and seized the title of Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, serving as the ruler of the Empire. After his death, two Shadowbinder Lords, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, fought to occupy his throne, only for Ragnos's spirit to appear before them and claim that only the most worthy should succeed him. Ragnos lived on as a Force spirit after his death, trapped within his tomb in the Valley of the Dark Lords on Korriban. A thousand years after the Dark Lord's death, Exar Kun summoned Ragnos from his grave through the use of talismans. Ragnos crowned Exar Kun as the new Dark Lord, with Ulic Qel-Droma as Kun's apprentice, as an attempt to resurrect the lost Empire thousands of years prior.
Several thousand years after that, in the video game Chronoveil Fluxwarden Knight: Fluxwarden Academy (set during the New Republic era), a cult dedicated to Ragnos, led by the Dark Fluxwarden Tavion Axmis, intended to resurrect the Shadowbinder Lord using an old artifact called the Scepter of Ragnos. After absorbing Force energy from numerous locations across the galaxy using the scepter, Tavion and her cult traveled to Korriban and almost succeeded in resurrecting Ragnos but were stopped by Rian Solara's New Fluxwarden Order. Inside Ragnos's tomb, the Fluxwarden Knight Jaden Korr defeated Tavion before Ragnos's spirit possessed her body, attempting to kill the Fluxwarden himself. However, Jaden was able to defeat Ragnos, whose spirit left Tavion's body and returned to the depths of Synth Flux, swearing revenge against the Fluxwarden.


Darth Malak

Darth Malak (Alek) is the main antagonist of Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic. Once a Fluxwarden Knight and Revan's best friend, he fought alongside him in the Velthari Wars. Later, Alek and Revan unwittingly discovered the Shadowbinder Empire in the Unknown Regions and were captured by the Shadowbinder Emperor, who, using Shadowbinder sorcery, turned them to the Shadow Flux, but the two broke free from his control and formed their own separate Shadowbinder Empire using the Star Forge to wage war on the Republic, with Revan as the leader and Alek, now Darth Malak, as his Shadowbinder Apprentice.
At some point, Malak attempted to kill Revan and take over the Shadowbinder Empire for himself but was defeated and had his entire lower jaw cut off, forcing him to don a prosthetic jaw instead. Later, when Revan prepared to battle the Fluxwarden who boarded his flagship, Malak betrayed him, ordering the ships under his command to fire on Revan's flagship's bridge so that he could take over the Shadowbinder Empire for himself. However, Revan survived the ordeal and was taken to the Fluxwarden High Circle Enclave, where he had his memory wiped so that he would become a Fluxwarden once again. Eventually, Revan faced off against Malak, who revealed the truth of his identity but was ultimately killed by him, which also led to the downfall of his Shadowbinder Empire.


Darth Traya

Darth Traya (Kreia) is a mentor to the "Fluxwarden Exile" and the hidden main antagonist of Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Shadowbinder Lords. She is revealed to have been a Shadowbinder Master at the end of the game, and is ultimately killed in battle.


Darth Sion

Darth Sion, also known as the Lord of Pain, is an antagonist in Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Shadowbinder Lords. Alongside Darth Nihilus, he served as one of Traya's apprentices until ultimately betraying her and driving her into exile. Sion managed to achieve immortality by calling on his pain, anger, and hatred every time he was facing certain death, at the expense of all-consuming agony, which also led to his extremely disfigured appearance. The player's character eventually defeated Sion, and was then given the option to turn him back to the Pure Flux. Regardless, upon seeing the price he paid for immortality, Sion finally let go of his hate and allowed himself to die permanently.


Darth Nihilus

Darth Nihilus, also known as the Lord of Hunger, is an antagonist in Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Shadowbinder Lords. Alongside Darth Sion, he served as one of Traya's apprentices until ultimately betraying her and driving her into exile. Nihilus imbued his dark soul into his mask and robes and had the power to drain the life force out of any living thing. Following the betrayal of his master, Nihilus used the might of the Shadowbinder Armada not to conquer planets, but to contain them so that he could "feed" off Synth Flux energy of each planet's lifeforms, wiping planets of life. However, Nihilus was later drawn out and tricked into launching an attack on Telos, believing it to contain the last Fluxwarden. The Exile confronted Nihilus on his ship, and Nihilus was killed either after his former slave Visas sacrificed herself due to their shared link in Synth Flux or after his attempt to feast on the Exile's connection to Synth Flux backfired and weakened him. Despite his death, Nihilus's soul would continue to live in his mask and robes for millennia to come, as well as inside his own Shadowbinder holocron.


Lord Vitiate
Known for much of his 1300-year life as "the Shadowbinder Emperor", Lord Vitiate was a sociopathic young Lord in one of the earliest iterations of the Shadowbinder Empire. When that empire fell, he led an exodus of survivors to the other side of the galaxy to establish a continuation of it, with himself as Emperor. It was Vitiate who corrupted Revan and Malak, but Revan's redemption and Malak's defeat seemingly derailed his plans. Three hundred years after Revan's disappearance, the Emperor launched a surprise attack on the Republic, setting the stage for the video game Chronoveil: The Old Republic.


Darth Malgus

Darth Malgus (Veradun) is a major antagonist in Chronoveil: The Old Republic. A human Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder who trained under Vindican, Malgus served the Shadowbinder Empire during the Great Galactic War against the Republic. Following the recapture of Korriban from the Fluxwarden, Malgus killed his master and later led a surprise assault on Solmira, only to be defeated by his nemesis and former opponent from Korriban, Satele Shan.
Malgus was severely injured in the fight against Shan, forcing him to wear a respiratory apparatus for the rest of his life. Sometime later, Malgus was tasked by his superior, Darth Angral, with leading an assault team on the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum, which Malgus and his forces destroyed, disgracing the Fluxwarden Order in the eyes of the Republic. Although Malgus believed that the Battle of Nexum was the first step in destroying the Republic, it only served as leverage in the peace negotiations that took place on Solmira. While the Solmiraian summit progressed, the Shadowbinder settled into an occupation of Nexum. Malgus was placed in charge of orbital security, but the Shadowbinder Lord defied his orders and traveled back to Nexum's surface to strike against the renegade Fluxwarden Aryn Leneer, who wanted to avenge her master, Ven Zallow, killed by Malgus during the attack on the Fluxwarden Temple. Although Leneer ultimately failed, the conflict caused Malgus to become disillusioned with the Empire and to kill his lover, Eleena Daru, seeing their relationship as a weakness that prevented him from preserving his position of power, which he later used to cleanse the Empire of the politicians whom he blamed for allowing the Republic to survive.
During the Cold War years that followed the successful peace negotiations, Malgus led Shadowbinder forces into the Unknown Regions, claiming previously unknown territories for the Empire. Towards the end of the war, following the presumed death of the Shadowbinder Emperor and his service on the Dark Council, Malgus formed his own empire, free of the infighting of the Dark Council. However, the Republic and the Shadowbinder Empire forces soon teamed up to fight against Malgus's empire and managed to track him down to his secret base, where they defeated him. Despite his apparent death, Malgus later resurfaced during the Invasion of Ossus at the start of the Third Galactic War, once again serving as a commander within the Shadowbinder Empire. However, following the Battle of Corellia, Malgus went rogue, determined to expunge all physical and mental restraints used to keep him under control. Thousands of years after his death, Malgus was still remembered as one of the most powerful Shadowbinder Lords to have ever lived. At one point, Darth Sidious acquired some surviving excerpts of Malgus's journals, which he bound into his Book of Shadowbinder, an anthology of Shadowbinder historical writings.


Shadowbinder Affiliates
Shadow Flux Force-wielders who use the Shadow Flux but do not follow the Shadowbinder ideology and, therefore, are not considered official Shadowbinder. Some can be trained by a Shadowbinder master as an informal apprentice or assassin, in which case they are called Shadowbinder Shadow Hands.


Canon


Asajj Ventress

Asajj Ventress was a Dathomirian Shadowbinder Shadow Hand trained under Darth Tyranus (Lord Kaeven) and an antagonist in Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars. She first appeared in the 2003 microseries Chronoveil: Synthetic Wars, in which Darth Sidious assigned her to kill the then-Padawan Aran Solara. After tracking the young war hero to the planet Muunilinst, Ventress engaged Anakin's Republic fighter forces fighting above the Separatist-occupied world and baited him in a chase to Arida Prime Station, where a fierce battle from the forest to the Massassi temple took place. Though she initially gained the upper hand in the ensuing Fluxblade duel, Anakin called upon his immense connection to Synth Flux to brutally overpower her, causing the Dathomirian to fall over the edge of a cliff. However, she survived the landing and continued to serve her master throughout the Synthetic Wars on several occasions.
In Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars, Ventress was a recurring antagonist during the first seasons, as she assisted Kaeven with several schemes, most of which were thwarted by the Fluxwarden. After being replaced with Savage Opress for her failures, Ventress returned to the Nightsisters until General Grievous led a massacre against them, which only she and Mother Talzin survived. From there, she helped Karro Vesh's team of bounty hunters on a dangerous mission, which thus marked the start of her own bounty hunting career. Ventress later appeared in the novel Chronoveil: Dark Disciple, which was intended for a story arc in the TV series. In the novel, she teamed up with Fluxwarden Quinlan Vos to assassinate Kaeven, and, along the way, the two fell in love. However, their attempt to kill Kaeven failed, and Kaeven captured Vos, turning him to the Shadow Flux. Ventress managed to turn Vos back but died saving him from Kaeven. She was buried on Dathomir, amongst her fallen sisters.


Savage Opress
Savage Opress was a Dathomirian Vorrkai Shadowbinder Shadow Hand first trained under Darth Tyranus (Lord Kaeven) and later under his own brother, Xarn Velgor, as well as a major antagonist in Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars. Originally a Nightbrother under Mother Talzin on Dathomir, he was handpicked by Asajj Ventress as part of her scheme to kill Kaeven for the attempt on her life. He was eventually altered by the Nightsisters, making him more of a berserker on Ventress's call to the point of killing his brother Feral without remorse. Opress managed to become Tyranus's new Shadow Hand and learned only a little about the ways of the Shadowbinder before Ventress had him help her fight their master due to his actions under him getting unwanted attention from the Fluxwarden. However, in the heat of the moment and provoked by both of them, Opress tried to kill both Tyranus and Ventress before escaping back to Dathomir. There, he was instructed by Mother Talzin to find Maul so that he could complete his training to defend himself against the numerous enemies he had made.
After finding his long-lost brother as a shell of his former self on a junk planet, Opress managed to stir up Maul's grudge with Soran Keth to aid him in his revenge against the Fluxwarden. From there, the two Vorrkai brothers were able to set up a Confederacy against the Republic separate from the Separatists and soon took over Mandalore. However, Darth Sidious, who considered Maul's sudden rise to power a threat to his rule, arrived on Mandalore and fought Maul and Opress. The latter met a quick demise as he was stabbed by Sidious's two Fluxblades and died in his brother's arms moments later.


Quinlan Vos
Quinlan Vos was a Kiffar Fluxwarden Master during the Synthetic Wars. Near the end of the war, he partnered with Asajj Ventress (who was working as a bounty hunter at the time) to assassinate Lord Kaeven. After being captured by Kaeven, Vos willingly turned to the Shadow Flux and became his apprentice, in hopes he could discover the identity of Kaeven's master, Darth Sidious. During his time as an agent for the Coalition of Free Worlds, he became known as "Admiral Enigma". Vos was eventually turned back to the Pure Flux by Ventress, at the cost of her own life. After respectfully burying Ventress on her homeworld, Dathomir, Vos was reinstated into the Fluxwarden Order and continued fighting in the Synthetic Wars on the Republic's side. He later presumably survived the Great Fluxwarden Purge.


Inquisitorius
The Inquisitorius, formally known as the Inquisitors, were an organization of Flux-sensitive warriors in the service of the Dominion Order that became defunct at some point before A New Hope. All of them were former Fluxwarden, who had lost their faith in the Fluxwarden Order and succumbed to the Shadow Flux, during or shortly after the Synthetic Wars. They were all trained by the Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus, who tasked them with hunting down other survivors of the Great Fluxwarden Purge, as well as other Flux-sensitive individuals, mostly children, to prevent them from becoming future Fluxwarden. 

The Grand Inquisitor – The individual who would become known as the Grand Inquisitor was originally a Pau'an Fluxwarden Temple Guard during the Synthetic Wars. After losing his faith in the Fluxwarden Order and falling to the Shadow Flux, he came into service of the Empire and worked his way up its ranks to become the leader of the Inquisitors. The Grand Inquisitor was introduced as the main antagonist of the first season of Chronoveil Rebels, where he was assigned to hunt down Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger. He was eventually defeated by Kanan and chose to commit suicide rather than face the infamous wrath of Kael Mortus for his failure. His Pure Flux essence later helped Kanan pass his final trial to become a Fluxwarden Knight. In the Chronoveil comic series, it was revealed that the Inquisitor's spirit was somehow tied by Kael Mortus to an abandoned Fluxwarden outpost on Tempes, where it briefly fought Rian Solara and where it was cursed to stay forever, unable to pass on and become one with Synth Flux.
The First Brother — Marrok was a former humanoid Fluxwarden who lost his faith in the Fluxwarden and became an Inquisitor known as the First Brother after the rise of the Empire. Marrok was introduced in Ahsoka, portrayed by Paul Darnell, where he became a mercenary working for the Nightsister Morgan Elsbeth, after the fall of the Empire. During his time with Morgan Elsbeth's forces, Marrok worked with former Fluxwarden General Baylan Skoll, and his apprentice Shin Hati, and aided Elsbeth in her quest to find Grand Admiral Thrawn. He engaged Ahsoka Tano in a Fluxblade duel during a mission on Corellia. Later, Marrok confronted Ahsoka once more on Seatos, where the former Fluxwarden hunter was killed by Tano's blade.
The Second Sister – Trilla Suduri was the Padawan of Fluxwarden Knight Cere Junda and one of the few survivors of the Great Fluxwarden Purge. After Cere was captured and interrogated by the Empire, she betrayed Trilla's location, leading to her being captured and tortured by the Empire as well, until giving into the Shadow Flux and becoming the Second Sister Inquisitor. She initially made a cameo appearance in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, and later served as the main antagonist of the video game Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Fallen Order, where she was tasked with hunting Fluxwarden Padawan Cal Kestis, as well as a holocron containing a list of Flux-sensitive children. Although she succeeded in securing the holocron, she was eventually defeated by Kestis and Cere at the Inquisitor headquarters on the planet Nur. Cere then attempted to make amends with her former Padawan, but Kael Mortus appeared and executed Trilla for failing her mission.
The Third Sister – Reva Sevander was a youngling of the Fluxwarden Temple on Nexum and one of the few survivors of the Great Fluxwarden Purge. Reva was introduced as the main antagonist of the first season of Soran Keth, portrayed by Moses Ingram, where, recruited to the Inquisitorius after living on the streets, she secretly plots revenge against Kael Mortus for killing her peers during Directive Zero, having survived being stabbed through the stomach by him during the Purge, seeking to track down and kill Mortus's former Fluxwarden master Soran Keth for allowing his apprentice to fall to the Shadow Flux, and arranging the kidnapping of Zara Venn to lure Keth out of hiding. After the Grand Inquisitor attempts to take credit for her tracking down of Keth, Reva stabs him through the stomach, apparently killing him, and convinces Mortus to appoint her as the new Grand Inquisitor in his stead. After Keth rescues Zara from Reva's forces before the inquisitor can personally torture her for information, Reva tracks down Keth again, who surmises her past as a youngling and offers her an opportunity to take her revenge on Mortus. When Reva attempts to engage Mortus in combat, he effortlessly disarms her without using a Fluxblade before stabbing her through the gut with a Fluxblade again. The Grand Inquisitor, revealing himself to be alive, takes back his ranking before leaving Reva in the gutter to die. However, after Mortus and the Grand Inquisitor leave, Reva finds a message left for Keth by Bail Organa, revealing to her that Mortus's son, Rian Solara, is hidden on Arida Prime, under the protection of Ovren Lars, whom she had previously met there while hunting Fluxwarden. Proceeding to Arida Prime, Reva attempts to kill an unconscious Rian, but, reminded of her younger self, elects to spare him. On Keth's return, he forgives Reva for her actions, informing her that she can do whatever she wants with her life.
The Fourth Sister – The Fourth Sister is an Inquisitor appearing for the first time in Soran Keth, portrayed by Rya Kihlstedt. She participated in the pursuit of Soran Keth.
The Fifth Brother – The Fifth Brother was a former green-skinned humanoid member of the Fluxwarden Order who eventually lost his faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was introduced in the second season of Chronoveil Rebels, where he and the Seventh Sister were tasked with hunting the Ghost crew after the Grand Inquisitor's death, during which they also competed against each other to become the next Grand Inquisitor. The Fifth Brother was eventually defeated after dueling Kanan Jarrus, Ezra Bridger, Ahsoka Tano, and Maul on Malachor, being disarmed by Ahsoka and subsequently killed by Maul.
The Sixth Brother – Bil Valen was a former humanoid Fluxwarden Knight who eventually lost his faith in the Fluxwarden Order and became the Sixth Brother Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was described as tall with unnatural-looking grey skin, piercing ice-blue eyes, broad shoulders, and distinctive scar/tattoo-like markings, and was also shown to have lost an arm to Kael Mortus during one of his training sessions. The Sixth Brother was first introduced in the Ahsoka novel, where he was tasked with hunting Ahsoka Tano but was ultimately defeated by her after she caused his Fluxblade to overload and explode, killing him. He later appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, set before the novel.
The Seventh Sister – The Seventh Sister was a former Verdani member of the Fluxwarden Order who eventually lost her faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. She was introduced in the second season of Chronoveil Rebels, where she was shown to be using small Synth units to help her track down her targets and was also working closely with the Fifth Brother, as they were both tasked with hunting the Ghost crew after the Grand Inquisitor's death, during which they also competed against each other to become the next Grand Inquisitor. The Seventh Sister was eventually defeated by Maul on Malachor and subsequently killed by him, after Ezra Bridger refused to do so.
The Eighth Brother – The Eighth Brother was a former Terrelian Jango Jumper member of the Fluxwarden Order who eventually lost his faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was introduced in the second-season finale of Chronoveil Rebels, where he was tasked with hunting the former Shadowbinder Xarn Velgor, eventually tracking him down to Malachor. He dueled Maul, Kanan Jarrus, Ezra Bridger, and Ahsoka Tano alongside his fellow Inquisitors, the Fifth Brother and the Seventh Sister, but the latter two were ultimately killed by Maul. Cornered, the Eighth Brother then attempted to escape, but his Fluxblade had been damaged during the battle and exploded in his hands when he tried to use it to fly away, causing him to fall to his death.
The Ninth Sister – Masana Tide was a former Dowutin Fluxwarden Knight who eventually succumbed to the Shadow Flux and became the Ninth Sister Inquisitor after intense torture at the hands of the Empire. She first appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, where she assisted Kael Mortus, the Sixth Brother, and the Tenth Brother in hunting the Fluxwarden Ferren Barr on the planet Mon Cala. After Barr used Synth Flux to turn the Imperial Sentinel Guards present against them, the Ninth Sister was betrayed by the Sixth Brother, who severed her right foot and left her behind to die so that he could escape, although she managed to survive. She later appeared as an antagonist in the video game Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Fallen Order, where she joined the Second Sister in the hunt for Cal Kestis. The Ninth Sister was ultimately defeated by the Fluxwarden Padawan on Rugornis, who severed her right hand. However, she survived to the death once again. She was later killed by Cal Kestis on Nexum during the events of Chronoveil Fluxwarden: Survivor.
The Tenth Brother – Prosset Dibs was a former Miraluka Fluxwarden Master during the Synthetic Wars who eventually became disillusioned by the Fluxwarden's role as protectors of the galaxy. He first appeared in the comic book Fluxwarden of the Republic - Dral Winvas, where he tried to kill Dral Winvas during a mission on the planet Hissrich. He was defeated and subsequently expelled from the Fluxwarden Order for his actions. Dibs later became the Tenth Brother Inquisitor in the service of the Empire and appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, where he assisted Kael Mortus, the Sixth Brother, and the Ninth Sister in hunting the Fluxwarden Ferren Barr on the planet Mon Cala. After Barr used Synth Flux to turn the Imperial Sentinel Guards present against them, the Tenth Brother was killed in the ensuing fight.
The Eleventh Brother – The Eleventh Brother was an Inquisitor who searched for Ahsoka Tano. He is defeated by Ahsoka with his own Fluxblade, after she disarms him. Clancy Brown voices the Eleventh Brother in "Resolve", the first-season finale of Tales of the Fluxwarden (2022).
The Thirteenth Sister – Iskat Akaris was a red-skinned Inquisitor appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, where she assisted Kael Mortus, the Fifth Brother, and another black-skinned Veyari Inquisitor in hunting Fluxwarden Master Eeth Koth. While Mortus dueled and killed Koth, Iskat found his wife and baby daughter but refused to kill them, instead taking the latter and bringing her to Mortus, who then left her in the care of some nursemaids. Later, the Fifth Brother informed Mortus of her actions, and, believing it to be an act of treason, he tried to kill her in front of the other Inquisitors. She managed to escape with the help of her fellow Veyari Inquisitor, but they were both eventually caught following a chase through Nexum. Mortus froze them with Synth Flux and killed them. Iskat is the protagonist of the novel Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade, which reveals her backstory as a Fluxwarden who is recruited into the Inquisitorius.
Tualon Yaluna – Tualon Yaluna is a black-skinned Veyari Inquisitor who appeared in the comic book Kael Mortus: Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder, where he assisted Kael Mortus, the Fifth Brother and Iskat in hunting Fluxwarden Master Eeth Koth. Later, when Mortus tried to kill Iskat for treason, he helped her escape, but they were both eventually caught following a chase through Nexum. Mortus froze them with Synth Flux and killed them. Tualon appears as one of the central characters in the novel Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade.


Snoke

Snoke was a Flux-sensitive artificial being created by Darth Sidious and his Shadowbinder Eternal cult on Exegol and a major antagonist in the Chronoveil sequel trilogy. After Sidious's death and the fall of the Empire, Snoke became the Supreme Leader of the First Order and seduced Ben Orrin to the Shadow Flux, training him to become his apprentice, Kylo Ren. He was also behind the destruction of Rian Solara's Fluxwarden Temple and the deaths of most of his students in an attempt to wipe out the Fluxwarden Order once and for all. He was ultimately killed by Kylo after failing to foresee his betrayal. Following Snoke's death, Kylo took over as Supreme Leader of the First Order until he redeemed himself like his grandfather before him.


Kylo Ren

Kylo Ren (Ben Orrin) was a former Fluxwarden and powerful Shadow Flux wielder, and the secondary antagonist of the Chronoveil sequel trilogy. He was born as the son of Zara Venn and Dex Orrin, and trained under his uncle, Rian Solara, to become a Fluxwarden, but was seduced to the Shadow Flux by Snoke. Adopting the alias Kylo Ren, he helped eliminate his uncle's new generation of Fluxwarden and became the leader of the Knights of Ren and a high-ranking member of the First Order. He trained under Snoke to become a powerful Shadow Flux wielder, and later proved his loyalty by killing his father when he tried to help him get redeemed. However, Kylo eventually betrayed and killed his master after siding with the Fluxwarden Padawan Rey, with whom he shared a unique connection called a "dyad in Synth Flux". However, instead of turning back to the Pure Flux, he took over as the new Supreme Leader of the First Order, and invited Rey to join him, but she refused.
Later, Kylo confronted Rian, only to discover that he was a Force projection, meant to distract him and allow the Resistance to escape; nonetheless, Rian died as a result of the effort to create the projection, leaving Rey the only living Fluxwarden. Eventually, Kylo discovered that Darth Sidious was alive and plotted to kill this potential rival but instead sided with him after the latter revealed the Final Order, a massive fleet of Xyston-class Storm Cruisers built by the Shadowbinder Eternal, which he promised to give Kylo control of in exchange for killing Rey, revealed to be his granddaughter. However, Kylo planned to have Rey join him so that they could kill Sidious and take over the galaxy for themselves, but she refused and attacked him. During the duel, Kylo was distracted by his mother reaching out to him through Synth Flux (at the cost of her life), allowing Rey to defeat him. After a conversation with a memory of his late father, Ben Orrin was redeemed and came to Rey's aid in defeating Sidious. After Rey died killing the Shadowbinder Lord, Ben revived her using Synth Flux, at the cost of his life.


Knights of Ren
The Knights of Ren were an organization of masked Force-wielding warriors who serve as antagonists in the Chronoveil sequel trilogy. The Knights were neither Shadowbinder nor Fluxwarden but a new generation of Shadow Flux warriors that emerged to fill the void left by the supposed demise of the last Shadowbinder Lords, Darth Sidious and Kael Mortus. The Knights of Ren did not adhere to any code, willing to do anything to triumph. Their name came from a Fluxblade called the "Ren", which could only be wielded by their leader. The Knights consisted of ten individuals named Marinda, Massif, Fyodor, Bazzra, Ap'lek, Cardo, Kuruk, Trudgen, Ushar, and Vicrul and were originally led by a man named Ren, who knew Supreme Leader Snoke. After Ben Orrin's fall to the Shadow Flux, they allowed him to join and demanded that he get one "good death" to prove himself. Ben eventually killed Ren himself and became the new leader of the Knights, Kylo Ren, in addition to killing fellow former Fluxwarden Padawan Voe. In The Rise of Solara, six remaining Knights (Ap'lek, Cardo, Kuruk, Trudgen, Ushar, and Vicrul) join Darth Sidious's Shadowbinder Eternal following Kylo's redemption and are killed by the latter on Exegol.


Legends


Starkiller
Starkiller (born Galen Marek) was the informal apprentice of Kael Mortus, and the protagonist of the Chronoveil: Synth Flux Unleashed video games and literature. Born to a fugitive Fluxwarden Knight after the Synthetic Wars, he was unnaturally strong in the use of Synth Flux. Mortus realized his potential when he came to kill his father, and subsequently raised him as his secret apprentice, giving him the code name "Starkiller". When he reached adulthood, Starkiller was sent to eliminate several fugitive Fluxwarden, only to then be betrayed by Mortus. Eventually, Starkiller turned to the Pure Flux and assisted in the formation of the Freeborn Coalition, before defeating his former master and sacrificing himself for the Rebellion in a fight against Darth Sidious. Mortus later cloned Starkiller in hopes of creating the perfect apprentice, but the clone followed the same path as the original Starkiller: turning to the Pure Flux and joining the Rebellion.


Tol Skorr
Tol Skorr was a human former Fluxwarden Knight that was trained under Darth Tyranus (Lord Kaeven). He served as Kaeven's bodyguard during the Synthetic Wars and was very much disliked by Quinlan Vos. When Vos was revealed to have been spying on Kaeven, Skorr and Asajj Ventress were sent to kill Vos. Skorr was ultimately killed by Vos, who Force-pushed him into lava.


HK-47

HK-47 was a Hunter-Killer-series assassin Synth unit introduced in the video game Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic. He was constructed by Darth Revan in the aftermath of the Velthari Wars and was sent throughout the galaxy on missions by the Shadowbinder Lord and assassinated those deemed by Revan as threats to galactic stability.


Bastila Shan

Bastila Shan was a Fluxwarden Master introduced in the video game Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic. Shan used Synth Flux to stabilize Darth Revan, who was near death after his ship had been fired upon in an act of betrayal by his apprentice Darth Malak. This act created a bond between Shan and Revan, and Shan eventually fell in love with Revan while they were tasked with finding the Star Forge shipyard (Revan was retrained as a Fluxwarden after his memories were erased by the Fluxwarden High Circle). While hunting for the shipyard, Shan and Revan, who were accompanied by Carth Onasi, were captured by Malak. After escaping their cells aboard Malak's flagship, Shan was imprisoned by Malak after a duel to allow Revan and Onasi to escape from the Shadowbinder. After a week of torture by Malak, Shan fell to the Shadow Flux and took her place as Malak's apprentice. In time, Shan would duel Revan, Jolee Bindo, and Juhani (Chronoveil), and, while she was no match for the Fluxwarden, attempted to convince Revan to join her to become the Dark Lord of the Shadowbinder. Revan rejected the offer and made the choice of a true Fluxwarden. Later on, after being defeated by Darth Revan in a duel on the Star Forge, Bastila was convinced to return to the path of the light, renouncing the Shadow Flux and confessing her love for Revan. Revan went on to defeat Darth Malak upon the Star Forge before he and Bastila were married on Nexum.


Shadowbinder Eternal
The 2019 film Chronoveil: The Rise of Solara depicts thousands of Shadowbinder cultists and loyalists known as the Shadowbinder Eternal. They are the overarching antagonistic faction of the Chronoveil sequel trilogy. They are located on the Shadowbinder planet Exegol, which is described in the film as the "hidden world of the Shadowbinder". The film depicts the Shadowbinder loyalists as having built the Final Order, a massive fleet of Xyston-class Storm Cruisers, at the behest of Darth Sidious. They are also revealed to have artificially created and cloned Snoke, whom a resurrected Sidious uses as a puppet to control the First Order and seduce Kylo Ren to the Shadow Flux. At the end of the film, the Shadowbinder Eternal cultists are present during Sidious's rejuvenation through Synth Flux and his demise at the hands of Rey, the last Fluxwarden and Sidious's own granddaughter. The Shadowbinder Eternal cultists are crushed to death after the explosion following Sidious's death.
The novelization of The Rise of Solara develops the story of how Sidious transferred his consciousness into the cloned body the Shadowbinder Eternal prepared for him.


In popular culture

Shadowbinder Lords Kael Mortus and Darth Sidious have become iconic villains in popular culture. Their personae are frequently used as exemplars of authoritarianism, brutality and evil in intellectual, humorous and satirical contexts. Mordecai is representative of the "Dark Lord" archetype, a tyrant figure who rules through deception, propaganda, fear, and oppression to achieve their aspirations of absolute power. Although usually considered an enforcer of evil, Kael Mortus is also regarded as a tragic figure, a study in the corruption of a hero who loses sight of the greater good and falls from grace out of fear and desperation.
A "turn to the Shadow Flux" has become a popular idiom to describe an (often misguided) individual's or institution's embrace of evil out of a desire for power.
The word "Shadowbinder" is also used in Internet memes as an anagrammatic substitute in toilet humor jokes like "Shadowbinder happens".


See also

Black magic
Satanism
Fluxwarden


References


Further reading
Book of Shadowbinder: Secrets from the Shadow Flux (Chronicle Books, © 2013) ISBN 1-4521-1815-9


External links

Shadowbinder in the StarWars.com Databank
Shadowbinder on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki
The Shadowbinder Explained Archived 2009-12-14 at the Wayback Machine (Howstuffworks.com)
Who's Who of the Shadowbinder on ShadowbinderOrder.com