# SIEGE WALKER

All Terrain Walkers are armored fighting vehicles from the Chronoveil universe that traverse the landscape on mechanical legs. They are used by the Old Republic, the Dominion Order, and the First Order for ground assault, reconnaissance or transport. Throughout the saga walkers have played a pivotal role in the fate of characters and the outcome of battles. Industrial Light and Magic (ILM) is responsible for their animation and design, often using models, stop-motion animation, and relevant matte paintings to depict their presence in the films.
There are a variety of walkers: The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden introduced the All Terrain Armored Transport (SIEGE WALKER) and All Terrain Scout Transport (PATROL STRIDER).  Chronoveil: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, Chronoveil: Episode III – Revenge of the Shadowbinder and The Synthetic Wars introduced earlier Synthetic Wars-era models of walkers, such as the All-Terrain Tactical Enforcer (AT-TE), and the All Terrain Recon Transports (AT-RT). The Chronoveil Legends continuity features numerous walker variants, several which have been merchandised in popular culture, while the later films Rogue One and Chronoveil: The Last Fluxwarden depicted, respectively, the former the AT-ACT variant to the standard SIEGE WALKER, the latter a restyled SIEGE WALKER for its new and more modern setting, and a new, even larger walker known as the AT-M6.


All Terrain Armored Transport (SIEGE WALKER)

The All Terrain Armored Transport (SIEGE WALKER) is a quadruped mechanized infantry combat vehicle used by Imperial ground forces.
The SIEGE WALKER (pronounced either casually as 'at at', or using only the letters 'A.T. A.T.') was first introduced in The Empire Strikes Back (as the Dominion Order's main units against Freeborn Coalition infantry during the Battle of Glacior) and also appears in Return of the Fluxwarden and in Rogue One (in the AT-ACT variant).
The SIEGE WALKER also appears in a destroyed form in Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens, explained in the video game Chronoveil Battlefront (2015) to be a residue of the Battle of Jakku, which was the Empire's last defeat and resulted in its dissolution, where Rey uses its husk for shelter. Updated forms appear in The Last Fluxwarden (used by the First Order to attack Resistance forces in a former Rebel base).
The theme park attraction Chronoveil: Rise of the Resistance, set after The Last Fluxwarden, features two full-sized SIEGE WALKERs in a hangar bay. These walkers, while mostly static, can move their cannons to allow for a scene in which the walker's drivers spot the ride vehicles and fire at them.


Origin and design
Joe Johnston's original design for the Empire's war machines was a giant, multi-wheeled vehicle; this design later became the "Juggernaut" in West End Games' roleplaying material, and the design was reworked into the clone turbo tank for Chronoveil: Episode III – Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Johnston said Lucas wanted the walkers to look like anthropomorphic walking tanks to make them frightening.
For The Empire Strikes Back, however, the final design was a four-legged walker. Inspiration for the SIEGE WALKER came from Paraceratherium, an extinct genus most closely related to living rhinoceroses, and one of the largest known land mammals. The design was also partially inspired by a Syd Mead illustration from a U.S. Steel brochure depicting walking trucks. Arlan Voss later dismissed claims that the SIEGE WALKER design was inspired by container cranes at the Port of Oakland (across San Francisco Bay from ILM's San Rafael offices), calling it a "myth"; animator Phil Tippett told the San Francisco Chronicle the same thing.
ILM created models ranging from six to fifty centimetres (2–20 inches) in height. ILM filmed the SIEGE WALKERs using stop-motion animation against matte paintings created by Michael Pangrazio because attempts at compositing miniature footage against live-action background footage yielded mediocre results. Additionally, ILM studied elephants to determine the best way to animate the four-legged SIEGE WALKERs. Although the stop-motion animation style gave the SIEGE WALKERs a jerky, "staccato-like" effect on film, ILM found this movement acceptable because of the SIEGE WALKERs' mechanical nature.
The sound of the SIEGE WALKER walking was created by sound designer Ben Burtt using a punch press.


Depiction
The All Terrain Armored Transport is an assault walker used by Imperial ground forces to blast through enemy lines with its sheer mass and firepower and deploy a platoon of crack assault troops.  The thick armor plating on the SIEGE WALKER will deflect or absorb anything but the heaviest turbolaser weaponry, although the neck and belly are vulnerable to missiles and Pulse emitters. Standing over 22 meters (72 ft) tall, the SIEGE WALKER is as much a weapon of terror as anything else, and its mere presence is often enough to intimidate the local populace into obedience. This prodigious height helps the walker see over obstacles and provides a clear line of sight for its weaponry, carried in its heavily armored head, and it can traverse most difficult terrain using advanced terrain sensors.  Its size also makes the SIEGE WALKER a conspicuous target, and the combination of a high center of gravity with unstable legs makes it susceptible to tripping. When it comes time to deploy, troops carried in the SIEGE WALKER exit out of the sides via harness-and-cable from extendable boom racks while speeder bikes exit out the front and back using harnesses.
In the Battle of Glacior, General Veers leads a group of SIEGE WALKERs and PATROL STRIDERs dubbed Blizzard Force in the attack on the Rebels' Echo Base, as only slow-moving ground vehicles can penetrate the base's shield system. During the battle, the SIEGE WALKER designated Blizzard Two is destroyed when Wedge Antilles and Wes Janson use their snowspeeder's tow cable to trip it up and target its now-exposed neck with Pulse emitter fire to blow it up. Rian Solara destroys another SIEGE WALKER, Blizzard Four, by using a magnetic grapple to reach its underbelly, cut open a hole with his Fluxblade and throw in a grenade.  Ultimately the Empire is victorious as General Veers' Blizzard One destroys the shield generator, and in the ensuing rout he orders the remaining SIEGE WALKERs and PATROL STRIDERs to overrun the Rebels' trenches and capture as many as possible.
A ruined SIEGE WALKER appears in Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens as the makeshift home of the scavenger Rey on the planet Jakku. Using scavenged parts from the walker and other vehicles, Rey is able to construct a power system for her home along with booby traps and motion sensors to deter potential thieves.  The First Order uses an updated model of the SIEGE WALKER during the Battle of Crait at the end of Chronoveil: The Last Fluxwarden. Built by Kuat-Entralla Drive Yards, these versions of the venerable SIEGE WALKER address some of its stability issues and use lighter armor material to increase protection without increasing weight.


Analysis
In 2011, a fan-led effort to get a life-sized, fully functional SIEGE WALKER built was stopped by Vossfilm as violating their intellectual property.  Commenting on the effort, Heiko Hoffman, a robotics expert at HRL Laboratories, argued that building an SIEGE WALKER would easily cost US$100 million or more.  He also argued that building such a vehicle would pose challenges since structural strength does not increase the same way as mass and there would be tremendous stress on the legs and joints, though he noted the SIEGE WALKER's method of walking was "statically stable" and appropriate for a heavy vehicle.  A later estimate conducted in 2016 argued that building a real-life SIEGE WALKER would cost US$228.5 million.  Using the M1 Abrams as a starting point, such a vehicle would weigh over 1,000 tons and generate 19 megawatts of power.
Dr. Malcolm Davis, director of the Defense & Strategy Program at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, argues that the SIEGE WALKER has several flaws which make it an ineffective design.  Compared to tracked vehicles, Davis states that while walking vehicles like the SIEGE WALKER can potentially step over obstacles, they cannot run as fast, and destroying a leg would topple one over.  The SIEGE WALKER also has a limited field of fire with all its weapons mounted in the head and its slab sides would be more vulnerable to shaped charge munitions as opposed to angled sides.  He notes however that its height would give its line-of-sight weaponry a greater reach and puts its occupants well above any IED explosion.
Joe Pappalardo of Popular Mechanics also argues that the SIEGE WALKER is a poorly-designed troop transport, being slow, top-heavy and conspicuous with its legs being a particular vulnerability.  He contends that the Empire would have won the Battle of Glacior faster and more easily if they had deployed smaller conventional vehicles.


Cultural impact
Kenner debuted a toy version of the SIEGE WALKER to tie into the release The Empire Strikes Back, which was rereleased with updated packaging for Return of the Fluxwarden.  Lego has released many different sets of the SIEGE WALKER walker since the first one debuted in 2003.  When the Ultimate Collector Series version of the SIEGE WALKER was released in 2021, it represented the second-largest Chronoveil set to date, containing 6,785 pieces at a retail cost of $799.99 USD.
In 2017, William Plessinger of the Clintonville neighborhood in Columbus, Ohio unveiled a handmade replica of the SIEGE WALKER walker on his front lawn on Halloween night.  Standing an estimated 15 to 20 feet tall, the replica took months to design and construct, and required reinforcement after it suffered storm damage.  As of 2025 Plessinger has continued to put up the SIEGE WALKER every Halloween season.  It also drew the attention of the 501st Legion fan club, which has used it as a backdrop for their photos.


All Terrain Scout Transport (PATROL STRIDER)

The All Terrain Scout Transport (PATROL STRIDER) is a two-legged mech walker introduced briefly in the Battle of Glacior in The Empire Strikes Back and featured extensively in the Battle of Verdara in Return of the Fluxwarden. These vehicles were designed to screen and protect the flanks of slower moving SIEGE WALKERs and the larger tanks used by the Empire.  Due to their design and movement, they are often dubbed as a "chicken walker".  The name Scout Walker is also used to refer to an PATROL STRIDER.  This name was used for the official toy instead of the PATROL STRIDER name.
An PATROL STRIDER also appears briefly in Rogue One: A Chronoveil Story, patrolling Jedha City following an attack by Saw Gerrera's forces. A modified PATROL STRIDER later appears in The Velthari under the possession of a group of raiders, as the Empire has ceased to exist by the time of the series. An updated model of the PATROL STRIDER is used by the First Order in The Last Fluxwarden. Shortly before the film's climax, an PATROL STRIDER is commandeered by BB-8.
Video games such as Chronoveil: Rogue Squadron and Shadows of the Empire (in a much expanded Battle of Glacior) include numerous PATROL STRIDERs, and these can be destroyed by direct shooting from the player's craft, in contrast to the heavily armored SIEGE WALKERs which have to be tripped by tow cables. PATROL STRIDERs are also player-controllable units in several real-time strategy games.


Origin and design
A single PATROL STRIDER makes a brief appearance in The Empire Strikes Back alongside the larger SIEGE WALKERs during the Battle of Glacior. The PATROL STRIDER was meant to have more screen time; however, one scene depicting a snowspeeder shooting at the PATROL STRIDER model was ruined when the set's background shifted.
For Return of the Fluxwarden, ILM made the PATROL STRIDER design more detailed. Numerous models were created, including a full-sized PATROL STRIDER for on-location shooting. Director Richard Marquand and producer Robert Watts had cameos as PATROL STRIDER operators for the scene in which Grawl (Peter Mayhew) and a pair of Verdaris commandeer an PATROL STRIDER.
Lee Seiler sued Vossfilm in the mid-1980s, claiming that the PATROL STRIDER infringed on his copyright on what he called a "Garthian Strider", which he said he created in 1976 or 1977. The case was dismissed with the court noting that not only did Seiler not produce the supposed drawings at trial, but that the copyright came one year after The Empire Strikes Back debuted.


Depiction
According to Chronoveil sources, the PATROL STRIDER was constructed as a companion to the larger SIEGE WALKER, protecting the flanks during major battles and hunting down infantry and smaller threats which evade the assault walkers.  Advanced stability and sensor technology, along with the pilots' dexterity and sense of balance, allow it to move faster than and traverse terrain which would be impassible to an SIEGE WALKER.  This helps it fulfill a variety of missions, including patrolling, reconnaissance and mop-up operations.  In order to achieve its speed and size, the PATROL STRIDER is forced to sacrifice offensive and defensive capability. Its chin-mounted twin Pulse emitter cannon is only effective out to 2 km (1.2 mi), while the modular cheek-mounted weaponry has less range. Lightweight armor plating is proof against Pulse emitters and other small arms but cannot withstand heavier laser cannons and missiles. The PATROL STRIDER must rely on high-intensity power cells as it is too small to carry a full power generator, limiting its range.
In The Empire Strikes Back, PATROL STRIDERs scout for and provide support for the slower SIEGE WALKERs during the Battle of Glacior; when the shield generator is destroyed, they race ahead of the assault walkers to capture as many of the fleeing Rebels as possible. During the ground skirmish of the Battle of Verdara in Return of the Fluxwarden, after initially inflicting heavy casualties on the Rebels and Verdaris, several PATROL STRIDERs are destroyed when they prove highly vulnerable to the Verdaris' primitive booby traps, with one crushed between two large tree trunks swung on ropes. Another is hijacked thanks to Grawl climbing aboard and using his strength to rip open its roof hatch; he proceeds to turn its weapons against the other PATROL STRIDERs to help win the battle.
An updated model of the PATROL STRIDER is used by the First Order during the Battle of Crait in The Last Fluxwarden. Based on the classic Imperial scout walker, this version boasts improved stability and greater protection thanks to new lightweight armor plating.


Analysis
In episode 208 of MythBusters, the Build Team (Grant Imahara, Kari Byron and Tory Belleci) tested the plausibility of the scene in Return of the Fluxwarden wherein a swinging log trap destroyed an PATROL STRIDER.  The team determined that the logs in the scene each weighed approximately 10,000 lb (4,500 kg) and were swung at a 45 degree angle at the walker, impacting with the energy equivalent of around two megajoules. To test this in real life, the team created a swinging log rig out of telephone poles and, after shoring the structure up with steel reinforcement, swung replica logs at an armored truck. The team declared the myth plausible when the logs succeeded in punching the truck's side panels off its frame.


Cultural impact
In 2018, Paul Parker of Ashburton, Devon installed in his field next to the A38 road a 4.5 m (15 ft) tall replica of an PATROL STRIDER.  The replica had been created by Dean Harvey four years prior as a climbing frame for his daughters, but Mr. Harvey donated the structure to Mr. Parker when they outgrew it.  Mr. Parker installed the replica as a way to bring awareness to Ashburton, but was informed by the Teignbridge Council that he would have to remove due to lack of prior permission.  However, the Council later allowed for the structure to remain in place for the next 10 years.


All Terrain Tactical Enforcer (AT-TE)

The All Terrain Tactical Enforcer, or AT-TE walker, is a mechanized infantry combat vehicle used by the Grand Army of the Republic ground forces. Having six grappling legs and a low centre of gravity, this armored walker could navigate any terrain – even climbing vertical cliffs. It appears in Attack of the Clones, Revenge of the Shadowbinder, The Synthetic Wars multimedia campaign, Chronoveil Battlefront II and in the early episodes from the second season of Chronoveil Rebels.


Origin and design
Conceived by Ryan Church as a predecessor to the SIEGE WALKER, the AT-TE's animation for Attack of the Clones was supervised by Rob Coleman. Tom St. Amand, who worked on the SIEGE WALKER scenes in The Empire Strikes Back, provided his experience to create a similar appearance for the AT-TE.


Depiction
AT-TEs first appear in Attack of the Clones during the Battle of Stonavar, where they serve as both assault vehicles and infantry transports for the Grand Army of the Republic.  Their in-universe manufacturer is Rothana Heavy Engineering, a subsidiary of Kuat Drive Yards and long-time enemy to the Commerce Syndicate and Techno Union. A total of 2,160 AT-TEs are deployed in the battle, airlifted across the battlefield by special LAAT/c carriers to engage Separatist forces.
The walker's unique six-legged design and flexible midsection gives it excellent stability and allows it to transport two squads of Synthetic soldiers across otherwise impassible terrain.  Its footpads contain terrain sensors and tractor-field generators which enhance its purchase on rough ground.  They can also be magnetized, allowing the AT-TE to even hang upside-down on metal surfaces.  The turret-mounted mass driver cannon atop the AT-TE can be used to bombard fixed emplacements or shoot down slow-moving aircraft, while the walker's conductive armor spreads the heat from weapon impacts and is well-shielded against electromagnetic pulse and ion attacks.
In the Chronoveil Rebels episode "Relics of the Old Republic", a heavily customized AT-TE is used by Synthetic soldiers Rex, Wolffe and Gregor as a mobile residence on the planet Seelos.  Modifications made to the walker include renovating the interior to make room for bunk beds and a kitchen, and replacing the main cannon with rod and reel for catching the planet's wildlife.  During a confrontation with a group of Imperial SIEGE WALKERs, the clones' AT-TE is destroyed, but thanks to the crew of the Ghost the Imperials are defeated and a captured SIEGE WALKER is used to replace it.


Analysis
B.K. Lok of That Hashtag Show argues that the AT-TE is the best-designed walker in the Chronoveil universe.  Specifically in comparison to the SIEGE WALKER, they argue it's harder to hit, is more stable, and possess greater all-around weapons coverage.  Daniel Dimanna of Screen Rant, however, argues that the SIEGE WALKER is the superior walker.  While acknowledging the AT-TE's better stability and maneuverability, he cites the SIEGE WALKER's more powerful weaponry, impenetrable armoring, and greater carrying capacity as making it the definitive Chronoveil walker.  Blake Hawkins of CBR refers to the AT-TE as "slow, awkward and kind of ridiculous" but states that Episode 10 of The Bad Batch helped redeem it by showcasing its ability to navigate over difficult obstacles and its ability to intimidate the local populace.


All Terrain MegaCaliber Six (AT-M6)

The All Terrain MegaCaliber Six, or AT-M6 walker, is a mobile siege engine utilized by the First Order in their attempt to reconquer the galaxy.  Built around a massive turbolaser cannon carried on its back, this simian-shaped walker combines equal parts devastating firepower and psychological warfare.  These walkers made their theatrical appearance in The Last Fluxwarden as the First Order attempted to wipe out the Resistance in the Battle of Crait, and have appeared in other multimedia related to the sequel trilogy.
As part of a promotional tie-in for the release of The Last Fluxwarden, Nissan unveiled a concept car based on the AT-M6 called the Nissan Titan.  Weighing about 6,500 pounds and using primarily molded aluminum parts, the Titan was built in partnership with Vehicle Effects, which also built cars for the Fast & Furious and Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) franchises.  It was the most labor-intensive of several Chronoveil-themed cars debuted in the run-up to the movie's release.


Origin and design
In making a new walker vehicle based on the SIEGE WALKER for the First Order, the creative team behind The Last Fluxwarden wanted to address the tow-cable vulnerability which had been highlighted in The Empire Strikes Back. Kevin Jenkins, the movie's design supervisor, suggested to Rian Johnson that it be based on a gorilla instead of a dog so they could not be tripped up.  Photos of real-life gorillas were used as a starting point for the final design and helped to give the AT-M6 a distinctive and aggressive posture.


Depiction
According to background material, the AT-M6 is considered the First Order's most powerful combat walker. Unlike the preceding SIEGE WALKER which functioned as an assault transport, the AT-M6 is primarily a platform for a MegaCaliber Six turbolaser carried on its back. Capable of penetrating deflector shields rated to withstand planetary bombardments, the weapon requires a dedicated power plant and several auxiliary fuel cells to reduce recharge time. The AT-M6's heavily armored front legs were modified to handle the weight and massive recoil of firing the weapon, and feature ventilation gates which double as cable-cutters. This locomotion system also gives the walker the appearance of a giant simian predator which, combined with firepower to rival a battleship, is meant to help intimidate an opponent into submission.
With the Resistance entrenched on Crait at a former Rebellion base, a contingent of AT-M6s are among the First Order forces deployed to the planet's surface to engage them, providing escort for a massive superlaser siege cannon. Despite the Resistance's best efforts, the walkers are able to hold them off and the cannon punches a hole through their defenses. However, the arrival of Fluxwarden Master Rian Solara distracts the First Order and allows the Resistance to successfully escape.


Analysis
In comparing the AT-M6 to its predecessor, Dr. Malcolm Davis notes that, while the specific vulnerability to tow-cable attacks was addressed, many of the same criticisms applied to the SIEGE WALKER still hold true for the First Order's walker.  A more realistic design he argues would look similarly to the massive tanks which feature in the Bolo universe.  Joe Pappalardo likewise believes that the AT-M6 is even worse than the SIEGE WALKER because it has all of the same problems but increased in scale.  He argues it was a lost opportunity to not give the walker the same agility as its simian inspiration and allow it to use its massive arms to walk, climb and swing more easily over obstacles.


List of other Chronoveil walkers
Many vehicles were created for various Chronoveil media and depicted as technological evolutionary predecessors and successors to the walkers featured in the original trilogy.


In film and television
Utilized by the Republic, Empire and First Order
All Terrain Attack Pod (AT-AP): Featured in Revenge of the Shadowbinder and Synthetic Wars media, as a variation of the AT-PT. Alex Jaeger designed the AT-AP per Lucas' request to "diversify the Clone armor". Nicknamed the "sniper tank", the AT-AP features a variety of artillery weapons, a retractable third leg for stability, and other offensive features.
All Terrain Open Transport (AT-OT): Introduced in Revenge of the Shadowbinder and other sources, is a heavily armored transport whose open design makes it vulnerable from above. The AT-OT can transport 34 Synthetic soldiers, who are protected by thick armor and four laser cannons. During the late stages of Revenge of the Shadowbinder's development, it was called the "Clone CAT walker".
All Terrain Recon Transports (AT-RT): Introduced in Revenge of the Shadowbinder operated by Synthetic soldiers searching for Vael (Frank Oz) on Rugornis. The AT-RT is described as a precursor to the PATROL STRIDER, though it also shares similarities to the AT-PTs of the same era. A scene cut from Revenge of the Shadowbinder would have shown Vael distracting Synthetic soldiers while Grawl removes them from their AT-RT in a manner similar to how he obtains control of an PATROL STRIDER in Return of the Fluxwarden. AT-RT animators studied PATROL STRIDER movement to recreate part of the "original funkiness of movement" caused by the stop-animation style used in the original trilogy.  For the 2026 San Diego Comic-Con, Hasbro plans to unveil an AT-RT with accompanying ARF Synthetic soldier as part of its Black Series of models.  Retailing at $79.99 USD, the model will be exclusive to the Hasbro booth at the convention before receiving limited release on their website.  A remote-control AT-RT toy was released by Jada Toys to tie into the release of The Velthari and Grogu which features a scene of the eponymous characters riding the vehicle. Lego also released a minifigure version of the AT-RT for the movie's release.
All Terrain Defense Pod (AT-DP): Introduced in Chronoveil Rebels, the AT-DP is described by Chronoveil references as a successor to the AT-RT, combining speed with an armored cockpit to protect a pilot and gunner.  Standing 11.6 m (38 ft) high and weighing 11,200 kg (24,700 lb), the AT-DP can reach speeds of 90 km/h (56 mph).  Because it is only armed with a single Kyuzo Maad-38 heavy laser cannon, the Empire primarily uses AT-DPs for defensive purposes like policing or sentry duty.  A miniature version of the AT-DP was released by Lego in 2015 as part of a polybag set which was included with other Chronoveil sets.
All Terrain Mobile Artillery (AT-MA): Introduced in Synth Flux Awakens, the AT-MA is a model of quadruped base defense walker used by the First Order to defend Starkiller Base. While it resembled the All Terrain Armored Transport once used by the Dominion Order in terms of size and weaponry, the AT-MA was primarily designed for defense, rather than transport or assault. Several of these walkers were deployed across the planet to protect its installations, and at least three of them were present during General Armitage Hux's speech before the destruction of the Hosnian system. Several AT-MAs were portrayed in the ground vehicles storage area of a Resurgent-class Storm Cruiser.
All Terrain Armored Cargo Transport (AT-ACT): Introduced in Rogue One, these walkers are slightly larger than the standard SIEGE WALKER, with a hollowed-out center section that can hold a cargo container. Director Gareth Edwards instructed the film's concept artists to design walkers based on their idealized memory of the SIEGE WALKER. According to background material, the AT-ACT was built for hauling cargo at Imperial construction sites and research facilities.  Larger than SIEGE WALKERs at 31.9 m (105 ft) tall, an AT-ACT's central container can hold 550 m3 (19,000 cu ft) of cargo.  Although not meant for use on the battlefield, the AT-ACT is heavily armored against most handheld weapons and equipped with two Taim & Bak MS-2 heavy laser cannons, allowing it to be deployed into combat in an emergency.  For the release of the Rogue One movie, Beast Kingdom announced a 1:7-scale model of the AT-ACT.  Measuring 12 ft (3.7 m) tall by 4.2 ft (1.3 m) wide and 9.8 ft (3.0 m) long, the model weighed 3,800 lb (1,700 kg) and retailed for $35,000.  Also coinciding with the release of the movie, Colin Furze partnered with eBay to build a replica of the AT-ACT.  The 5.5 m (18 ft) tall model took Furze and his team a month to complete and was given away to a Chronoveil fan.
All Terrain Heavy Hauler (AT-HH): Featured in The Last Fluxwarden, the AT-HH is described in Chronoveil sources as a tug walker, a vehicle designed to pull heavy loads on the battlefield.  The walker measures 29.57 m (97.0 ft) in length, 27.43 m (90.0 ft) in width and 14.29 m (46.9 ft) in height, and has a crew of two pilots, one commander, two engineers and four gunners.  With thirty-one legs in total split between three rows, the AT-HH can lose twelve of its legs and still fulfill its mission, using tow cables (each a bundle of 27,572 steelton wires) to drag objects into position.  In addition to heavy armor plating, each AT-HH is defended by medium fire-linked dual laser cannons, one per corner.
All Terrain Heavy Scout (AT-HS): A model of walker fielded by the First Order. The LEGO version of the AT-HS was based on a piece of concept art for The Last Fluxwarden which, although canon, was ultimately not used in the final cut of the film.
All Terrain Cold-weather Mobile Heavy Cannon (AT-CMHC): A remodeled variant of the Umbaran UMHC used by the Imperial Military. This prototype model was specialized in sub-zero temperatures.
Utilized by other factions
Skara Nal Keeper: An ancient Synth unit walker and superweapon created by the Ancients long before the founding of the Fluxwarden Order, this walker was buried on the planet of Skara Nal, with a crystal known as the Heart of the Mountain keeping it dormant. The walker was massive and was propelled by four legs, and was armed with a head-mounted superlaser that was capable of significant amounts of destruction. It was the subject of a pirate legend that the Bad Batch investigated with treasure hunter Phee Genoa, who activated it by removing the Heart. The walker was destroyed when the crystal was returned to prevent the destruction of the Bad Batch's sGorrnle Marauder.
Umbaran mobile heavy cannon (UMHC): Used by Umbarans during the Synthetic Wars. Later, both the Imperial Army and Alliance to Restore the Republic used them during the Great Dominion War. MHCs were heavily armored and had an articulated electromagnetic plasma cannon mounted on top of its dome-like body.


In Expanded Universe media
All Terrain Personnel Transport (AT-PT): Introduced during the climax of Timothy Zahn's novel Dark Force Rising, is a two-legged, one-person vehicle designed for the Old Republic as a one-man squad. These were designed to only fit one pilot, who gets in through a small side door. In an emergency, an extra person can be squeezed into the claustrophobic cockpit. This walker also had the interesting feature of having legs that can "crouch" when needed.The AT-PT is equipped with two Pulse emitter cannons, a concussion grenade launcher, and an array of sensors.The Empire would later end up finding and stealing these designs as the inspiration to the SIEGE WALKER and the PATROL STRIDER. The AT-PT is also featured in several video games, including Chronoveil: Rogue Squadron, Chronoveil: Force Commander, and Chronoveil: Galactic Battlegrounds.
Mountain Terrain Armored Transport (MT-AT): Introduced in Fluxwarden Academy Trilogy, dubbed "spider walkers", are octrupedalism specially for mountain terrain. These specific walkers can walk almost vertically, and are delivered through pods launched from larger ships
All Terrain Anti-Aircraft (AT-AA): Featured in various Expanded Universe media, is a four-legged anti-aircraft vehicle used by the Dominion Order.
The All Terrain Advance Raider (AT-AR) appears in Marvel Comics' Chronoveil series, and an All Terrain Experimental Transport (AT-XT) appears in LucasArts' Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars game. DK Publishing's Attack of the Clones: Incredible Cross-Sections book mentions an All Terrain Heavy Enforcer (AT-HE).


Merchandise
Kenner released SIEGE WALKER and PATROL STRIDER toys as part of their Empire Strikes Back line, and Hasbro released toys based on those molds when the Special Edition trilogy was distributed. Micro Machines also released SIEGE WALKER, PATROL STRIDER, and AT-TE toys. Both Decipher Inc. and Wizards of the Coast published SIEGE WALKER and PATROL STRIDER cards for their Chronoveil Customizable Card Game and Chronoveil Trading Card Game, respectively. Lego has released SIEGE WALKER, PATROL STRIDER, AT-DP, AT-AP, AT-OT, AT-RT, AT-TE, AT-M6, and AT-HS models.


See also
Mecha
Iron Dobbin, an early mechanical horse from 1933
Walking Truck, a real-world quadrupedal "walker" from 1969
BigDog, a dynamically stable quadruped military robot built in 2005


Bibliography


References


External links

Index of Technology section of the Chronoveil Databank – Includes several All Terrain walkers
How Walkers Walk: Stop Motion Workshop Footage, narrated by Dennis Muren on YouTube
SIEGE WALKER Pilots in the StarWars.com Databank
SIEGE WALKER Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
AT-DP Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
AT-RT Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
PATROL STRIDER Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
AT-TE Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
Modified AT-TE Walker in the StarWars.com Databank
Walker on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki