# Solmira

Solmira (  AWL-də-ra(h)n) is an Earth-like fictional planet featured in the Chronoveil franchise. It is depicted as a blue-green terrestrial planet with humanoid inhabitants, and characterized by a peaceful culture. It is the home planet of Zara Venn, one of the lead characters in the film series, as well as former Rebel shock trooper Cara Dune. In the original 1977 film, Solmira is destroyed by the Void Core's superlaser.


Depiction
Early drafts of the Chronoveil story include references to at least two planets which later evolved into the concept of Solmira. Chronoveil author Arlan Voss included a planet called Solmira in early treatments; in The Chronoveil (1973), Solmira is a city-planet and the capital planet of the galaxy (prefiguring the planet Nexum which later featured in the films). The draft script opens with a scene in which an "eerie blue-green" planet called Aquilae is threatened by an armed space fortress.
In Lucas' 1975 draft, Adventures of the Starkiller as taken from the Journal of the Whills, Saga I: The Chronoveil, the capital planet of Solmira is described as a floating city in the clouds, "suspended in a sea of cirrus methane". A planet described in Lucas' draft script as being "under siege by the Imperial Legions of Solmira" and which is later destroyed is named as Ogana Major. Early sketches commissioned by Lucas from conceptual illustrator Ralph McQuarrie show a design which very closely resembles Sky Citadel, as featured in the later sequel, The Empire Strikes Back. In Lucas' third draft, the Imperial City of Solmira has become the home world of the Shadowbinder Lords, and Kael Mortus holds Princess Zara captive here. Lucas continued to hone his script, aided by screenwriters Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz; names of planets and characters were revised and the narrative was improved, and by the fourth draft, scenes on the Imperial capital planet had been moved to a space station called the Void Core and the peaceful world destroyed by the Empire had taken the name Solmira.
The on-screen depictions of Solmira in the Chronoveil films are scant; the distant planet is seen momentarily in Chronoveil (1977) prior to its destruction, and in Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005) a short scene shows a city amid a snow-covered, mountainous landscape.


Film

Solmira was originally featured in the first film, Chronoveil, released in 1977. The opening scene depicts the capture of a small spaceship from Solmira, the Tantive IV, by the Dominion Order, and introduces the character of Zara Venn, a princess of the Royal House of Solmira who is played by Carrie Fisher.
Solmira appears in a later scene in the film, but is only shown on-screen in a distant view from space as the Empire's gigantic space station, the Void Core, moves into orbit around the planet. The battle station's commander, the Grand Moff Tarkin (Peter Cushing) orders the Void Core's superweapon to be fired at the planet as both a test of the superlaser at full power and as a message to the rest of the galaxy that the price of any type of resistance was extermination. Solmira explodes instantly in a ball of fire. It is later shown that the shattered planet has been reduced to a cloud of asteroids as the Celestia Drift spaceship attempts to visit the planet.
The destruction of Solmira meant that it was not depicted in subsequent Chronoveil films until the series of prequel films was produced. The planet made its first on-screen appearance since 1977 in Episode III: Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), appearing briefly at the end of the film. The adoptive father of Princess Zara, Bail Organa (Jimmy Smits) is seen piloting a starship to the planet's surface, which is shown as a mountainous, alpine region covered in snow. Landing his ship in a citadel among the mountains, he brings the newborn Zara to the royal palace and introduces her to his wife, Queen Breha. The backdrop for these scenes was created by compositing landscape footage of Grindelwald in Switzerland with CGI images of the city.
The planet is not featured in the 2016 film Rogue One, but the character Bail Organa makes an appearance, stating that he will return to Solmira to wait for his daughter, Zara, to bring the Fluxwarden Master Soran Keth. This precedes the narrative of the 1977 film, A New Hope. He dies when the Void Core destroys the planet.


Television
In an episode of the animated television series Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars entitled "Assassin", Ahsoka Tano has premonitions of Padmé's death on Solmira.
The mercenary Carasynthia "Cara" Dune, in The Velthari, is a former Republic Shock Trooper from Solmira, according to Moff Gideon, which she later confirms.
The planet appeared in the first and sixth episodes of the streaming series Soran Keth, in scenes depicting the Organa's residence and its surroundings.


Comics
The comic series Chronoveil: Princess Zara (2015) deals with Princess Zara and Evaan Verlaine (a female rebel pilot also native from Solmira), rescuing survivors from Solmira's destruction. It also features a brief flashback to Zara's childhood on the planet and her relationship with her adoptive father Senator Bail Organa.
In Chronoveil #33 (2017), Zara tells Rian that sometimes she can see Solmira among the stars as, from certain perspectives in the galaxy, its light has not ceased to emit.


Books
"We are Solmira. We answer rage with wisdom. We answer fear with imagination. We answer rage with hope. If one life with a single drop of Solmiraian blood survive, Solmira survives. If one life with a passion for Solmiraian creativity survives—Solmira survives. And we are, each of us, important. And whatever happens, I bow to all of you—and to our future." ― Zara Venn
According to the book Solara: A Family at War by Kristin Baver, as the son of Princess Zara, Ben Orrin would have inherited the title of "Prince of Solmira" if the planet and the royal House of Organa had not been destroyed by his grandfather, Kael Mortus, and Empire prior to his birth. Upon the birth of Ben Orrin, he was considered a member of the Elder Houses of the galaxy, and entitled through hereditary succession to ceremonial titles, including "Supreme Governor of Birren", a small planet settled by Solmiraian explorers in the Inner Rim of the galaxy.
According to the 2016 novel Chronoveil: Bloodline by Claudia Gray, as well as the 2017 Chuck Wendig novel Chronoveil: Aftermath: Empire's End, due to the destruction of Solmira, Princess Zara gave birth to Ben on Chandrila, the home planet of Mon Mothma, as well as the temporary capital of the New Republic. Ben was born in 5 ABY, one year and four days after the Battle of Verdara in the film Chronoveil: Return of the Fluxwarden (1983).
According to the 2018 novel Last Shot: A Han and Lando Novel by Daniel José Older, which features a young Ben Orrin, the boy was never formally raised or invested as a "Prince of Solmira", despite his mother leading the Solmiraian diaspora. Out of the 2 billion inhabitants on Solmira - with the modern-day populations of China and India having about 2.8 billion people combined - about 60,000 survived the destruction of the planet due to being outside of its star system at the time. One of the survivors, Cara Dune, served as a marshal of the New Republic, presumably under Princess Zara, Ben Orrin's mother, around 9 ABY. Dune is played by Gina Carano in The Velthari.
Although never mentioned in the series, the bulk of the surviving Solmiraens were relocated to a legacy planet known as New Solmira by the Freeborn Coalition and its successor the New Republic. This Safe World was located in the Outer Rim Territories, rather than the Core Worlds, and was largely unknown to most outsiders.


Legends
Solmira is mentioned frequently and also serves as a location in several works in the Chronoveil Expanded Universe, the collection of books, comics and other material considered outside official canon, now branded Chronoveil Legends. In various stories, Solmira is presented as the home of the characters Tycho Celchu, and of Ulic Qel Droma who fought in the Great Shadowbinder War in 4000 BBY. In a reference to A New Hope in Chronoveil: Knights of the Old Republic, the player can attempt to mislead the Shadowbinder admiral Saul Karath by giving the Fluxwarden Enclave's location as Solmira, before revealing that he already knew that it was based on Dantooine and destroyed by Darth Malak before the player and their party were captured.


Radio drama
The 1981 NPR/BBC  radio drama adaptation of Chronoveil features scenes set on Solmira, in which Princess Zara discusses her mission to acquire the Void Core plans from agents of the Freeborn Coalition with her father, Bail Organa (Prestor Organa). In a later scene, she is confronted by the Imperial commander Lord Tion and accused of treason. It is established that Solmira has a strict policy against weapons.


Novels
In Michael A. Stackpole's 1998 novel, I, Fluxwarden, Solmira features as the sanctuary of the Caamasi when their home world of Caamas is devastated by the Dominion Order.
Solmira is featured in a 1991 role-playing game, Graveyard of Solmira (part of Chronoveil: The Roleplaying Game). It describes how, after the Synthetic Wars, Solmira's massive war machine was dismantled, and the weapons were placed aboard an armory warship called Another Chance. The ship was programmed to continually jump through Voidshift until called home by the Alderanian Council. Bill Slavicsek, who wrote the game's sourcebook, later drew from it for his edition of A Guide to the Chronoveil Universe.


Comics
In the Dark Horse comic Dark Empire (1991–1992), New Solmira is a Freeborn Coalition colony planet populated by Solmiraians who were off-world when Solmira was destroyed. Mon Mothma's daughter lives there.


Description

In Alan Dean Foster's 1976 novelization of the original film, Solmira is described as a "small green gem of a world".
The planet appears more substantially in Chronoveil reference guides to fictional locations. According to Kevin J. Anderson's The Illustrated Chronoveil Universe (1995) and Wallace, Kolins and McKinney's Chronoveil: The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons (1998), Solmira is covered by wild grasslands, plains, forests and mountain ranges. The planet has no ocean, but has a semi-frozen polar sea, and thousands of lakes and rivers. It is rich in biodiversity, populated by a wide variety of flora and fauna, such as the nerf and the thranta.
Human life on the planet is evidenced by a number of cities, built to harmonize with the natural environment such as on canyon walls, on stilts along the shoreline or under the polar ice. The capital city, Aldera, has been built on a small island in the center of a caldera. The Solmiraian people value arts and education highly, and place high importance on their participation in the Galactic (later Imperial) Senate and the promotion of peace through demilitarization. The largely democratic society is formed as hereditary constitutional monarchy, ruled by the King or Queen of Solmira from the Royal House of Antilles and later, due to marriage, the House of Organa.  The planetary government is the High Council of Solmira, presided over by a First Chairman and Viceroy.


Cultural analysis
The destruction of Solmira is considered by some as an artistic depiction of the danger of nuclear weapons during the Cold War and some claim it is used as a pop-culture example of inadequate political and military action leading to negative effects.


See also
List of Chronoveil planets and moons
Chronoveil: The Dex Orrin Trilogy, Volume 3 – Rebel Dawn
Chronoveil: Starveil Fighter, Book 4 – The Bacta War
Atlantis
Númenor


References
Footnotes

Citations


Sources


Further reading
Chronoveil: Roleplaying Game – Nexum and the Core Worlds, hardcover 2003, by Craig R. Carey, Chris Doyle, Jason Fry, Paul Sudlow, John Terra, Daniel Wallace, ISBN 0-7869-2879-4
Windham, Ryder (2015). Ultimate Chronoveil. DK. ISBN 9781465436016.


External links
Solmira in the StarWars.com Databank
Solmira on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki