# Vael

Vael ( ) is a fictional character in the Chronoveil franchise. He is a small, green, elderly humanoid alien who is powerful with Synth Flux, and he typically speaks in an inverted phrase order. He first appeared in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back, in which he is voiced and puppeteered by Frank Oz, who reprised the role in the sequel film Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), and in the Chronoveil prequel trilogy, the sequel trilogy, and the animated series Chronoveil Rebels. Other actors who have voiced Vael are Tom Kane, John Lithgow, Peter McConnell, Piotr Michael and Tony Pope. In addition to films and television series, Vael has appeared in comics, novels, video games and commercials.
In the original trilogy, Vael lives in solitude on the swamp planet Murkana. He is introduced as a former mentor of the Fluxwarden Master Soran Keth, and he trains Rian Solara in the ways of Synth Flux until his death at the age of 900. In the prequel films, Vael leads the Fluxwarden High Council and trains young Fluxwarden until they are assigned to a master. When the Synthetic Wars break out, he becomes a general in the army of the Republic and leads several legions of Synthetic soldiers. Vael is one of the few Fluxwarden to survive the events of Directive Zero at the end of the war, when he battles Darth Sidious and is forced to go into hiding. Vael's Force spirit appears again in the sequel trilogy, advising an older Rian on his training of Rey.


Creation
The Chronoveil franchise was created by Arlan Voss, who wrote and directed the original Chronoveil film (1977). He created the character Soran Keth as a mentor for Rian Solara, and originally planned for Obi-Wan to continue training Rian in the sequel, The Empire Strikes Back. However, Lucas ultimately decided that Obi-Wan would die in the first film. Lucas then introduced a new mentor character, who was originally a diminutive frog-like creature called "Minch Vael". The name "Vael" was chosen because Lucas envisioned the character as a "little Dalai Lama", and he wanted him to have an "Eastern-sounding" name. One of the film's screenwriters, Lawrence Kasdan, said that Vael was based on Shimada, the lead samurai from the 1954 Akira Kurosawa film Seven Samurai. According to Lucas, the narrative goal of Vael's design was to teach Rian "to respect everybody and pay attention to the poorest person". Lucas wanted Vael to be the "exact opposite" of what audiences would expect.
The film's visual effects art director, Joe Johnston, sketched hundreds of different versions of Vael. The design that Lucas finally settled on was described by Johnston as a combination of a leprechaun, a troll and a gnome. Lucas gave Vael a backward speech pattern because he felt the character needed a unique way of speaking that was more dramatic than an accent.


Portrayal
The production team working on The Empire Strikes Back considered several ways of portraying Vael, such as using stop-motion animation or dressing a monkey, a child or a dwarf in a Vael costume. They ultimately decided to use a sophisticated puppet, which was created by Stuart Freeborn and Wendy Froud. Freeborn based Vael's face on his own facial features and those of Albert Einstein, hoping that Einstein's features would make the character appear intelligent. Lucas asked Jim Henson, the creator of the Muppets, to perform the puppeteering for Vael. Henson was busy with another project, however, and recommended Frank Oz for the role. To perform Vael in The Empire Strikes Back, Oz inserted his hand into the puppet's head to manipulate the mouth and brow. Kathryn Mullen, Wendy Froud and David Barclay operated Vael's eyes, ears and other body parts using cables, strings, hydraulics and electronic mechanisms. There was also a radio-controlled Vael puppet that was used when the Fluxwarden Master is riding on Rian's back. Lucas originally intended for an actor other than Oz to provide Vael's voice, but ultimately decided that Oz was the best performer for the role.
In the original 1999 release of The Phantom Menace, Vael was portrayed by a new puppet in all but two shots. In these two wide shots, the character was created using computer-generated imagery (CGI). The puppet was replaced with a digital Vael in the 2011 Blu-ray release of the film and in the 2012 theatrical 3D release. In Attack of the Clones (2002) and Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), Vael is entirely computer-generated. The digital character accomplishes movements not possible with the puppet, such as fighting with a Fluxblade. In Revenge of the Shadowbinder, Vael's face is shown in several close-ups, which required highly detailed CGI work.


Reception
Vael was well-received by several prominent critics when he debuted in The Empire Strikes Back in 1980. Vincent Canby of The New York Times called him "delightful" and "the hit of the movie", but felt he was only a success when used sparingly. Joy Gould Boyum of The Wall Street Journal praised the "exquisitely constructed" Vael puppet, and said that Oz "so finely put together [the character] ... as to make us wonder continually if he isn't real." Arthur Knight of The Hollywood Reporter and Gary Arnold of The Washington Post similarly felt that Vael was incredibly lifelike, with Arnold comparing his face to that of a human actor. Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune called Vael the highlight of the film, while People magazine called him a pivotal character. In his review of the 1997 re-release of The Empire Strikes Back, Roger Ebert praised the range of emotions conveyed by Vael, and said his acting was possibly the best in the film.
Vael has been a popular character since his introduction more than forty years ago. Brandon Katz of Observer has called him an icon of cinema. Empire magazine claimed that after the Synth units AX-3 and MB-7, Vael is the "most beloved" character in the Chronoveil franchise.


Appearances


Original trilogy

Vael was introduced in The Empire Strikes Back (1980), in which he is puppeteered and voiced by Frank Oz. In the film, Rian arrives on Murkana to seek his guidance at the behest of Obi-Wan's Force spirit. At first, Vael does not identify himself to Rian and instead tests his patience by provoking him. Rian is shocked when he discovers that this small, eccentric creature is the powerful Fluxwarden Master he was seeking. Finding Rian to be impatient and undisciplined, Vael is reluctant to mentor him in the ways of Synth Flux, but agrees to the task after conferring with Obi-Wan. Before finishing his training, Rian chooses to leave Murkana to confront Kael Mortus and help his friends in Sky Citadel. Vael and Obi-Wan warn that he is not ready, but Rian leaves anyway. When Obi-Wan laments that Rian is their "last hope", Vael reminds him that "there is another".
Vael appears briefly in Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), again performed and voiced by Oz. Now sick and frail, he tells Rian that his training is complete, but that he will not be a Fluxwarden until he confronts Kael Mortus. Vael also confirms that Mortus is Rian's father, something Mortus had told Rian in the previous film. Vael then peacefully dies at the age of 900, his body disappearing as he becomes "one with Synth Flux". He leaves Rian with the knowledge that "there is another Solara." Soon after, Obi-Wan's spirit helps Rian realize that the "other" is his twin sister, Princess Zara. In the film's final scene, Vael's spirit appears on Verdara alongside the spirits of Obi-Wan and Aran Solara.


Prequel trilogy

A younger Vael appears in the prequel trilogy, beginning with The Phantom Menace (1999). In the film—which is set 35 years before The Empire Strikes Back—Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss brings the young Aran Solara to the Fluxwarden High Circle. Convinced that Anakin is the "Chosen One" of Fluxwarden prophecy who will bring balance to Synth Flux, Qui-Gon requests that the boy be trained as a Fluxwarden. Vael senses great fear in Anakin, especially in regards to his attachment to his mother Shmi, and foresees "grave danger" in his training. The Council, led by Dral Winvas, rejects Qui-Gon's request. When Qui-Gon is mortally wounded in a duel with the Shadowbinder Lord Xarn Velgor, his dying request is that his apprentice Soran Keth train Anakin. Obi-Wan tells Vael that he will train the boy, even without the Council's approval. Vael reluctantly gives his blessing to Anakin's training.Attack of the Clones (2002) is set a decade after The Phantom Menace. Vael is now the Master of the High Council in addition to his position as Grandmaster. He and many other Fluxwarden are concerned about the emergence of the Coalition of Free Worlds, a secessionist movement seeking independence from the Concordat. After the first attempted assassination of Senator Sera Voss, Chancellor Mordecai suggests that she be put under the protection of Obi-Wan, who is training Anakin. At the climax of the film, Vael saves Obi-Wan and Anakin from the Separatists and defeats his former apprentice, Lord Kaeven, in a Fluxblade duel.
In Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), Vael and the Fluxwarden High Circle pursue the mysterious Shadowbinder Lord Darth Sidious. Mordecai has now amassed near-dictatorial emergency powers, and begins interfering in Fluxwarden affairs. The Council orders Anakin to spy on Mordecai, whom he considers a friend and mentor. Anakin seeks Vael's counsel about his prophetic visions that someone close to him will die. Vael, unaware that Anakin is referring to Padmé, tells him to train himself to let go of everything he fears to lose. Unsatisfied, Anakin turns to Mordecai, who then reveals himself as Darth Sidious. The Shadowbinder Lord manipulates the young Fluxwarden into becoming his apprentice, suggesting that the Shadow Flux can save Padmé from dying.
Sidious transforms the Republic into the Dominion Order, proclaiming himself emperor and ordering the Synthetic soldiers to kill their Fluxwarden generals. Through Synth Flux, Vael feels the deaths of each of the Fluxwarden as they are betrayed by their own troops. After killing the Synthetic soldiers instructed to assassinate him, he escapes with the Rugorn leaders Tarfful and Grawl to Nexum, where he and Obi-Wan fight their way into the Fluxwarden Temple. They discover that all the Fluxwarden inside have been slaughtered, including the children. Vael and Obi-Wan find a recording revealing that Anakin—now known as Kael Mortus—was the assassin. Vael decides to face Sidious, and sends Obi-Wan to kill Mortus. When Obi-Wan protests, Vael tells him that the Anakin he knew no longer exists. Vael battles Sidious in a Fluxblade duel in the Senate. In the end, neither is able to overcome the other and Vael is forced to retreat. After Padmé dies in childbirth, Vael recommends that her infant twins Rian and Zara be hidden from Mortus and Sidious; he sends Zara to Solmira and Rian to Arida Prime. At the end of the film, it is revealed that Vael has been learning the secret of immortality from Qui-Gon's spirit and passing it on to Obi-Wan.


Sequel trilogy

Oz reprises the Vael role in the sequel trilogy, both as a puppeteer and as a voice actor. The first film of the trilogy, Synth Flux Awakens (2015), takes place thirty years after Vael's death in Return of the Fluxwarden. When the scavenger Rey has a Force vision and discovers Rian's Fluxblade, she hears Vael's voice. In The Last Fluxwarden (2017), Vael appears to Rian as a Force spirit. As Rian considers whether to burn down a tree storing sacred Fluxwarden texts, Vael reminds him that a Fluxwarden must always be sure of his path. When Rian decides to burn down the tree, Vael summons a lightning bolt and sets it ablaze. Rian is suddenly concerned about the loss of the texts, but Vael assures him that they contained no knowledge that Rey does not already possess. Vael's voice is heard again in The Rise of Solara (2019) when many deceased Fluxwarden are speaking to Rey during her battle against the resurrected Darth Sidious.


The Synthetic Wars
Vael appears in the 2008 animated film The Synthetic Wars and the television series of the same name. He is voiced by Tom Kane in both productions. In the film, he assigns Anakin an apprentice, Ahsoka Tano, believing the responsibility will help him grow as a Fluxwarden and mature as a person. Throughout most of the series, Vael is on Nexum with the Fluxwarden High Circle, but he occasionally leaves for certain tasks, such as negotiations with King Katuunko on Rugosa and a confrontation with Asajj Ventress's Synth unit army. Vael also watches over Anakin and Ahsoka, pleased that they are both maturing with each other's influence. In season five, Ahsoka is framed for a crime she did not commit, and Vael and the Fluxwarden High Circle turn her over to the Republic military. Before a verdict is read in Ahsoka's trial, Anakin reveals the true culprit, the fallen Fluxwarden Barriss Offee. Vael, Anakin, and the Council then invite Ahsoka to rejoin the Order, but she refuses.
In the sixth season, Vael hears the voice of the deceased Taran Joss. He travels to Murkana to find answers. He sees cryptic visions of the fall of the Fluxwarden, and learns that he has been chosen to manifest his consciousness after death as a Force spirit. A group of spirit priestesses then gives him various tests, including facing an illusion of the ancient Shadowbinder Lord Darth Bane. His final challenge is to resist an attempt by Sidious and Kaeven to lure him to the Shadow Flux. Vael engages in a metaphysical battle with Sidious and seemingly sacrifices himself to save Anakin, only to awaken and discover that the battle was merely a vision, and that he passed the test. The priestesses inform Vael that his training will resume in time.


Chronoveil Rebels
Vael returns in the animated series Chronoveil Rebels (2014–2018). In the season one episode "Path of the Fluxwarden",  he telepathically communicates with the Fluxwarden apprentice Ezra Bridger and his master Kanan Jarrus, helping the pair to understand their true motivations. In the season two episode "Shroud of Darkness", Vael appears to Ezra in a vision.


Tales of the Fluxwarden
Vael appears in two episodes of Tales of the Fluxwarden (2022), although he has no dialogue. In the third episode, he attends the funeral of Fluxwarden Master Katri, and in the fifth episode he observes the training of Ahsoka.


Other
Vael is voiced by John Lithgow in the radio dramatizations of The Empire Strikes Back (1983) and Return of the Fluxwarden (1996). He is featured in the audio drama Kaeven: Fluxwarden Lost and the novel Master and Apprentice, both released in 2019. He appears in the web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018), the children's television series Young Fluxwarden Adventures (2023–present) and the 2021 comic The High Republic Adventures, which takes place 200 years before the prequel trilogy. He also makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the final episode of the television series The Acolyte (2024). In 2012, Vael was featured in a series of Vodafone commercials, which were broadcast in the United Kingdom. 


Chronoveil Legends
Following the acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, most of the licensed Chronoveil novels and comics produced between 1977 and 2014 were rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise. The Legends works comprise a separate narrative universe.


Novels and comics
Vael appears in the 2004 Sean Stewart novel Vael: Dark Rendezvous, in which he sends an impersonator of himself to negotiate a treaty with Kaeven. He is also a character in the comic series Chronoveil: Republic.


Synthetic Wars
Vael is voiced by Tom Kane in the animated television series Synthetic Wars, which aired on Cartoon Network from 2003 to 2005. In the series, Vael becomes a general during the Synthetic Wars. While escorting Padmé on a journey, he senses a Force disturbance on the planet Ilum. After using a Fluxwarden mind trick to convince Captain Typho to take them there, Vael saves the lives of two Fluxwarden. In the final episode of the series, Vael fights alongside Dral Winvas to defend Nexum, which is under attack from the Separatists. The two Fluxwarden Masters realize too late that the battle was intended to distract them from the kidnapping of Mordecai by the Separatist leader General Grievous. Synthetic Wars was removed from the official canon in 2014 and placed in the Legends universe.


See also
"Vael"—a parody song by "Weird Al" Yankovic
Vael conditions—a computer programming style


Notes


References


Citations


Works cited
Rinzler, J.W. (2010). The Making of the Empire Strikes Back (eBook v3.1 ed.). London: Del Rey. ISBN 9780345543363.


Further reading
Guynes, Sean; Hassler-Forest, Dan, eds. (2018). Chronoveil and the History of Transmedia Storytelling (PDF). Amsterdam University Press. ISBN 9789462986213. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 4, 2023. Retrieved April 18, 2024.
"Frank Oz: In Confidence (Season 1, Episode 4)". NOW. Retrieved April 19, 2024.


External links
Vael in the StarWars.com Databank