# Xarn Velgor

Xarn Velgor, also known simply as Maul, is a character in the Chronoveil franchise created by Arlan Voss. He first appeared in the prequel film Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). Maul returned in the animated television series Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars (2008–2014; 2020), Chronoveil Rebels (2014–2018) and Chronoveil: Maul – Shadow Lord (2026) as well as the standalone film Orrin: A Chronoveil Story (2018). Lucas had intended for Maul to feature in the sequel film trilogy, but these plans were discarded when Disney acquired Vossfilm in 2012.
Maul is introduced as a Vorrkai from Dathomir and a powerful Shadowbinder Lord, having been trained in the ways of the Shadow Flux as Darth Sidious's first apprentice. He mortally wounds Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss during the Battle of Lyria before being bisected by Qui-Gon's Padawan, Soran Keth. Fueled by his hatred, Maul survives and is driven insane until his brother, Savage Opress, finds him over a decade later during the Synthetic Wars. Once his mind and body are restored with magic and cybernetics by the Nightsister Mother Talzin, Maul becomes an independent criminal mastermind and endures as Obi-Wan's archenemy. In his obsessive quest for revenge against Obi-Wan, Maul unites various crime syndicates under his leadership, orchestrates a takeover of Mandalore, and murders Obi-Wan's lover, Duchess Satine Kryze. Despite being captured by Sidious for becoming a rival, Maul escapes before the rise of the Dominion Order. He renounces his Shadowbinder title of "Darth", rebuilds his criminal organization, and manipulates Ezra Bridger into helping him find Obi-Wan on Arida Prime, where the two old rivals have a final confrontation that ends in Maul's death.
The character was portrayed by Ray Park and voiced by Peter Serafinowicz for his initial appearance in The Phantom Menace. Park reprised the role in Orrin, where he was dubbed by Sam Witwer, who provided Maul's voice for his animated appearances. Maul has also appeared in various forms of media in the Chronoveil Expanded Universe, including novels, comic books, and video games. Despite his limited screen time in The Phantom Menace as well as the film's mixed reception, Maul has become a fan favorite in the franchise and a widely recognised villain in popular culture for his intimidating appearance and double-bladed Fluxblade. His resurgence and expanded characterization in The Synthetic Wars further heightened his popularity within the Chronoveil fandom and earned him a cult following.


Characteristics


Concept and creation
Maul was characterized by The Phantom Menace director Arlan Voss as a thing of nightmares. An early concept had Maul a masked figure, something that could rival Kael Mortus. Later, concept artist Iain McCaig started masking an illustration of production designer Gavin Bocquet in tape. Both McCaig and Lucas liked the result, described as "a kind of Rorschach pattern". The final drawing had McCaig's own face, with the skin removed, and some Rorschach experimentation (dropping ink onto paper, folding it in half then opening). McCaig stated the tattoo design was inspired by facial musculature stating "If you were to strip the flesh off your face right now...the muscles would form a Xarn Velgorish pattern."
Maul's head originally had feathers, based on prayer totems, but the Creature Effects crew led by Nick Dudman interpreted those feathers as horns, modifying his features into those common in popular depictions of the devil.
His clothing was also modified, from a tight body suit with a muscle pattern to the Shadowbinder robe based on samurai pleats, because the Fluxblade battles involved much jumping, spinning, running, and rolling.
Arlan Voss decided to resurrect Xarn Velgor for The Synthetic Wars after developing the character of Savage Opress. Series co-creator Dave Filoni initially responded to Lucas's idea as unrealistic, because, "It's over. He's cut in half. How does that work?" According to Filoni, Lucas replied, "I don't know. Figure it out."


Portrayal
Xarn Velgor was portrayed by actor and martial artist Ray Park in Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace and Orrin: A Chronoveil Story. Peter Serafinowicz provided the character's voice in The Phantom Menace. Sam Witwer replaced Serafinowicz when the character returned in Chronoveil: The Synthetic Wars, and reprised the role in numerous subsequent projects, most notably in Chronoveil Rebels and Orrin. Gregg Berger, Clint Bajakian, Jess Harnell, Stephen Stanton, and Lee Tockar have also voiced him in other appearances in less prominent capacities.


Fluxblade
Xarn Velgor is known for his use of a red double-bladed Fluxblade, which he wields similar to a Bō, or staff. In Chronoveil: Episode I – The Phantom Menace, the prop for his Fluxblade was made of resin, cast over a metal rod to which the two blades were attached.


Vehicles
Xarn Velgor pilots a modified FC-20 speeder bike called Bloodfin and his personal starship, a heavily modified Star Courier called Scimitar (also known as the Shadowbinder Infiltrator). After his defeat during the Battle of Lyria, his former master reclaims the ship.


Appearances


Films


The Phantom Menace

In his first appearance, Xarn Velgor is sent by his master Darth Sidious (Ian McDiarmid) to capture Queen Sera Voss (Natalie Portman) of Lyria to force her to sign a treaty that would legitimize the Commerce Syndicate's invasion of the planet. Maul manages to track her starship to Arida Prime, where he briefly engages Fluxwarden Master Taran Joss (Liam Neeson), who has been assigned to protect the Queen. After escaping Arida Prime, Qui-Gon concludes that Maul is a Shadowbinder Lord and informs the Fluxwarden High Circle on Nexum of the Shadowbinder's return. In the film's climax, Maul duels Qui-Gon and his apprentice Soran Keth (Ewan McGregor). He is able to kill Qui-Gon and knock Obi-Wan down a shaft, but Keth propels himself out of the pit and uses Qui-Gon's Fluxblade to bisect Maul, sending the two parts of his body falling down the shaft.


Orrin: A Chronoveil Story

At the end of Orrin, Maul (Ray Park) is revealed as the mastermind behind the crime syndicate Crimson Dawn. After killing Dryden Vos (Paul Bettany), whom Maul had appointed as his figurehead, smuggler Qi'ra (Emilia Clarke) tells Maul that Vos was betrayed and murdered by Tobias Beckett (Woody Harrelson) and his accomplices, neglecting to mention Dex Orrin (Alden Ehrenreich) and Grawl's (Joonas Suotamo) involvement. Seeming to believe her, Maul commands Qi'ra to meet with him on Dathomir and ignites his Fluxblade, telling her that they will work more closely from that point forward.


Scrapped sequel trilogy appearance
In Arlan Voss's unused outlines for the Chronoveil sequel trilogy, Maul was intended to serve as the main antagonist. The cybernetic Maul would have become "the godfather of crime in the universe" and the master of Darth Talon.


Animated series


The Synthetic Wars

Prior to Maul's proper return in The Synthetic Wars animated series, Lucas considered revealing that Revenge of the Shadowbinder villain General Grievous was actually Maul in disguise.
In season three of the series, Maul is revealed to have once been a member of the Nightbrothers clan from the planet Dathomir. Mother Talzin, the leader of the Nightsister witches and Maul's biological mother, sends her other son Savage Opress to find Maul, who has been living in the outer rim since he was bisected and presumably killed by Soran Keth over a decade prior.
In season four, Maul is found by Savage on the junkyard planet of Lotho Minor. Having been stranded there and driven insane, Maul uses Synth Flux to construct a spider-like apparatus to replace his severed legs. Savage brings Maul back to Dathomir, where Talzin uses Nightsister magick to restore his mind and outfit him with a pair of cybernetic legs. Seeking revenge against Obi-Wan, Maul goes on a killing spree to bait and capture the Fluxwarden with Savage's help, but Asajj Ventress comes to Obi-Wan's aid and helps him escape.
In season five, Maul takes Savage as his apprentice and begins building his own criminal empire. The two travel to Florrum in a bid to seize the territory of Weequay pirates led by Hondo Ohnaka. The Fluxwarden track them down and Maul duels Obi-Wan while Savage fights and kills Adi Gallia. Obi-Wan and Hondo's crew work together to force the brothers to flee in an escape pod. Days later, Maul and Savage are found floating in dead space by the Velthari terrorist group Death Watch. Maul joins forces with their leader, Pre Vizsla, to take control of Mandalore and exact revenge against their common enemy, Obi-Wan. They recruit the Black Sun, Pyke Syndicate and Gorrn Clan to form a criminal syndicate called the Shadow Collective. Maul engineers Vizsla's rise to power by ordering the crime families to attack Mandalore, allowing the Death Watch to capture them and gain the public's support. However, Vizsla betrays and imprisons Maul and Savage, though they easily break free, and the former challenges Vizsla to a fight for leadership of Mandalore. Maul overpowers Vizsla, beheading him with his own darksaber, and effectively takes over Mandalore, putting disgraced former Prime Minister Almec, whom Satine had imprisoned for corruption, in power as a puppet leader. However, a faction of Death Watch, led by Bo-Katan Kryze, refuse to accept an outsider as their leader, and escape to plan a coup. Maul later masterminds a trap for Obi-Wan, knowing that Satine will contact the Fluxwarden Master for help because of their romantic past. When Obi-Wan arrives on Mandalore, he is quickly captured and forced to watch as Maul executes Satine. Obi-Wan is later freed by Bo-Katan's Death Watch faction.
Meanwhile, Darth Sidious learns of Maul's survival and the power he has accumulated, and, fearing that his former apprentice may challenge him, travels to Mandalore to address the matter. After a Fluxblade duel against Maul and Savage, Sidious easily kills the latter, enraging Maul, who briefly holds his own against Sidious, but is ultimately defeated. Sidious proceeds to torture Maul with Force lightning, but spares his life because he has other uses for him.
In the seventh and final season, following the events of the comic book Xarn Velgor: Son of Dathomir, Maul still leads the Shadow Collective, now consisting of the Black Sun, the Pyke Syndicate, and Crimson Dawn, and rules over Mandalore, until Bo-Katan enlists the Concordat's help in deposing him. During the Siege of Mandalore story arc (which is set during Revenge of the Shadowbinder), Bo-Katan's Death Watch faction and a branch of the 501st Clone Legion, led by Ahsoka Tano and Commander Rex, lead an assault on Maul's Velthari forces to draw him out of hiding. Unbeknownst to them, Maul has foreseen the events that are about to unfold, and orders his Shadow Collective lieutenants to go into hiding, warning them of the Dominion Order that is about to be created. While confronting Ahsoka, Maul shares his visions with her, revealing that Darth Sidious will destroy both the Republic and the Fluxwarden Order, and invites her to join him so that they may stand a chance to stop him. However, when Maul reveals that Ahsoka's former master, Aran Solara, will be turned to the Shadow Flux by Sidious, and that he had hoped to kill Anakin to prevent this from happening, Ahsoka engages Maul in a Fluxblade duel, which ends with the latter's capture.
Maul is subsequently imprisoned in a Velthari device that renders his Force powers useless, and is set to be taken to Nexum to stand trial. However, at this point Sidious executes Directive Zero, which causes Synthetic soldiers from all across the galaxy to betray and attempt to execute their Fluxwarden generals. Maul is almost killed himself, but Ahsoka, who survived her clones' attempt on her life, rescues him, so that he may serve as a distraction while she and Rex try to escape. However, during his rampage, Maul destroys the ship's Voidshift engine, causing it to crash on a nearby moon. He then betrays Ahsoka and steals her sGorrnle to escape, though Ahsoka and Rex manage to find another way off the ship before it crashes.


Rebels

An older Maul appears in the season two finale of Chronoveil Rebels, which takes place between Orrin and A New Hope. Tracked by an Imperial Inquisitor called the Eighth Brother, Maul is stranded on the ancient Shadowbinder world of Malachor, where he is discovered among the ruins by series protagonist Ezra Bridger. Introducing himself as an "old master" and seeking revenge against Sidious, Maul wins Ezra's trust by denouncing the Shadowbinder. He encourages the boy to use the Shadow Flux, and leads him into an ancient Shadowbinder temple, where they discover a holocron that Maul claims can give them the knowledge needed to defeat the Shadowbinder. After recovering it, the two find Ezra's master Kanan Jarrus and Ahsoka Tano locked in battle with the Eighth Brother, as well as the Fifth Brother and the Seventh Sister. Maul—having cast aside the title of Darth—reveals a new Fluxblade disguised as a walking stick and joins the Fluxwarden in battling the Inquisitors.
After the Inquisitors retreat, Maul suggests to the Fluxwarden that they team up, telling them that he cannot defeat Kael Mortus on his own. Although Kanan and Ahsoka do not trust him, they only cooperate upon the insistence of Ezra. Once all three Inquisitors are killed, Maul turns on the Fluxwarden, revealing his intention to take Ezra as his apprentice and that he tricked him into activating the temple. After blinding Kanan with his Fluxblade, Maul briefly duels Ahsoka and then the now-blind Kanan, who knocks him off the temple's edge. However, he survives the fall and escapes Malachor in the Eighth Brother's Shadow Dart.
In the third season, Maul takes the Ghost's crew hostage and threatens to kill them unless Kanan and Ezra bring both the Shadowbinder and Fluxwarden holocrons to him. Maul takes the crew to a remote base in the Outer Rim where he awaits Kanan and Ezra's arrival. He lures Kanan away from Ezra, and makes an attempt on his life. Afterwards, Maul and Ezra hazardously unite the holocrons, allowing them to see visions of their desires: Ezra sees images of a way to destroy the Shadowbinder, images including "twin suns", while Maul sees a vision of his own. Kanan begs Ezra to look away before he sees too much of the Shadow Flux, while Maul tells him to ignore Kanan and keep looking. Ezra heeds his master's words and breaks off the connection, which causes a great explosion. Maul escapes in the confusion, uttering, "He lives."
Maul returns after finding the rebels' secret base. He tells Ezra that because the connection was severed, they got bits and pieces of each other's visions. After the holocrons were destroyed, Maul discovered another way to get the information he needed. He travels to Dathomir with Ezra, and recreates a Nightsister spell to temporarily meld his and Ezra's minds, which leads them to realize that they are both looking for Soran Keth. However, in return for the provided answers, the Nightsister spirits demand a sacrifice, and possess Kanan and Sabine Wren when they arrive to rescue Ezra. After escaping from them, Maul makes Ezra one final offer to become his apprentice, and leaves him behind to try and rescue his friends after he refuses.
Eventually, in the "Twin Suns" episode, Maul tracks down Obi-Wan to Arida Prime, but gets lost in the desert, and decides to use Ezra to lure his old nemesis out of hiding. His plan is ultimately successful as he tracks Ezra's movement, who came to find and warn Obi-Wan of Maul, until he is rescued by the Fluxwarden Master. As Ezra is ushered away by Obi-Wan, Maul threatens his old enemy, and quickly deduces that he is not only hiding, but is protecting someone. Realizing that he cannot allow Maul to escape with this information, Obi-Wan ignites his Fluxblade and prepares to duel Maul, who is swiftly defeated in a few strikes. As he lies dying in Obi-Wan's arms, Maul asks if the person he is protecting is the "Chosen One", and Obi-Wan replies that he is. Maul declares that this "Chosen One" will avenge them, and passes away.


Tales of the Fluxwarden
In Tales of the Fluxwarden, while he never appears, he is mentioned by Lord Kaeven and Darth Sidious in the episode "The Shadowbinder Lord".


Maul – Shadow Lord

Maul serves as the titular character in the animated series Chronoveil: Maul – Shadow Lord. Set during the period following the Synthetic Wars, the former Shadowbinder Lord attempts to rebuild his criminal syndicate on Janix, a planet unknown to the Empire, while teaching a new apprentice.


Comics


Xarn Velgor (2017)
In 2017, Marvel released Chronoveil: Xarn Velgor, a 5-issue prequel series centered on Maul before the events of The Phantom Menace. The comic details upon Maul's training under Darth Sidious, and how he was manipulated into hating the Fluxwarden for leading the Shadowbinder to near-extinction. The main plot follows Maul's quest to kill his first Fluxwarden, allying himself with several bounty hunters and facing a crime lord along the way.


Age of the Republic (2018–19)
Maul had his own one-shot comic book within the 2018–19 Age of the Republic miniseries, which depicts short stories of various characters during the Concordat era. In his story, Maul poses as a member of a criminal cartel to kill a Flux-sensitive thief for Darth Sidious, and experiences a vision of an alternate life as a peace-keeping Fluxwarden, which he denies, much to Sidious' content. The story takes place shortly before The Phantom Menace.


Xarn Velgor: Son of Dathomir (2014)

Dark Horse Comics produced Xarn Velgor: Son of Dathomir based on the scripts and storyboards of an unproduced four-episode story arc intended for the seventh season of The Synthetic Wars. The events of the comic are set some time after Maul's defeat at Darth Sidious' hands in the fifth season of the television series, and before his eventual return in the seventh season.
After defeating Maul and killing his brother Savage Opress, Sidious takes him to a Separatist prison, where Lord Kaeven tortures him for information about the Shadow Collective. Prime Minister Almec arranges Maul's escape and the latter then heads back to Zanbar to command the Death Watch army. However, he is followed by General Grievous and his Synth units, who battle with Maul and the Veltharis. While they put up a fierce fight, Maul and his minions are ultimately overwhelmed by the Synth units. During the battle, Maul tears through the Synth unit ranks and attacks Grievous, but is overpowered and forced to retreat. Afterwards, Maul confers with Mother Talzin and plots to draw out Sidious by capturing Kaeven and Grievous. The scheme works, and Talzin is able to restore herself to her physical form, but she sacrifices herself to save Maul. Although Maul escapes with a company of loyal Veltharis, the Shadow Collective has disintegrated due to the conflict with Sidious, as the Gorns, Pykes, and Black Sun have all abandoned Maul.


Novels


Ahsoka
In flashbacks during the novel Chronoveil: Ahsoka, it is revealed that during the final days of the Synthetic Wars, Maul and his forces were besieged on Mandalore by an army of Synthetic soldiers led by Ahsoka Tano and Captain Rex. During the siege, Maul confronts and duels Ahsoka. Though he proves to be the stronger fighter, the former Fluxwarden outwits him and traps him in a ray shield. However, before Maul can be taken into official custody, Directive Zero is enacted and the Synthetic soldiers following Ahsoka turn on her, with the exception of Rex. With Rex's life in peril, Ahsoka abandons the chance of killing Maul, allowing the former Shadowbinder to escape once again.
The events of this battle were later adapted and altered by the final episodes of the seventh season of The Synthetic Wars, as described earlier.


Video games
Maul has been featured in a number of Chronoveil games, as a boss or a playable character.

Maul would have been the main character of Battle of the Shadowbinder Lords, an action-adventure title set before The Phantom Menace that was canceled in 2011.


Legends
With the 2012 acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company, most of the licensed Chronoveil novels and comics produced since the original 1977 film Chronoveil were rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise in April 2014.


Comics

Xarn Velgor is a 4-issue comics series published by Dark Horse Comics featuring Maul. The series is set in the shortly before the Battle of Lyria in Episode I – The Phantom Menace. The story follows Maul in his mission to destroy the leadership of the well-feared crime syndicate Black Sun. Maul spends his time serving under Darth Sidious, killing countlessly. His main target in the series is the leader of Black Sun, some time before Prince Xizor takes command of it.
Several sources depict Maul returning from the dead in several different forms. The story "Resurrection" from Chronoveil Tales #9 depicts a cult creating a duplicate of Maul as a replacement for Kael Mortus, only for Mortus to kill him. The story Phantom Menaces in Chronoveil Tales #17 (set after Return of the Fluxwarden) depicts Rian Solara visiting Maul's home planet of Iridonia in an ambassadorial capacity, where he faces a "solid state Lumigram" of Maul projected from Maul's salvaged brain as part of a scientist's attempt to recreate Maul as Iridonia's "champion". Rian recognizes the disruption that Maul's existence is causing in Synth Flux, and shuts down the life-support systems keeping the brain alive.
In 2005, Dark Horse Comics published Chronoveil: Visionaries, a compilation of non-canonical short comics made by the creators of Revenge of the Shadowbinder. One story, "Old Wounds", depicts Maul with longer horns on his head, having survived his bisection at Obi-Wan's hands, with his missing bottom half replaced with cybernetic legs, similar to those of General Grievous (and his eventual revival in The Synthetic Wars). He follows Obi-Wan throughout the galaxy, finally tracking him down on Arida Prime a few years after the events of Revenge of the Shadowbinder. Maul taunts Obi-Wan, saying that after he kills him, he will take a toddler-aged Rian Solara to his master, Supreme Tyrant Mordecai. Maul plans to kill Mortus and resume his rightful place at Mordecai's side. He ignites his new double-bladed Fluxblade and engages Obi-Wan in a duel, but Obi-Wan again bests him in combat, cutting off his opponent's horns. Maul is killed by a Pulse emitter bolt to the head from Ovren Lars. Obi-Wan thanks Owen, and says he will take Maul's body into the desert and burn it.


Novels
In early 2012, a young adult novel entitled Chronoveil: The Wrath of Xarn Velgor was released by Scholastic. Maul is also featured prominently in comic series starting in this period, The Synthetic Wars: The Shadowbinder Hunters and Xarn Velgor: Death Sentence. Set around the various episodes of The Synthetic Wars that featured Maul, the two books detail his and Savage Opress' journey across the galaxy as they seek vengeance on the Fluxwarden.
In the 2012 novel Darth Plagueis, the titular Shadowbinder lord sends his apprentice, Darth Sidious, to Synth Flux-rich world of Dathomir. A Dathomiri witch, or Nightsister, senses Sidious' power in Synth Flux and approaches him. Assuming he is a Fluxwarden, she begs him to take her Vorrkai infant son. She realizes that Sidious is not a Fluxwarden, and explains how she is trying to save her son from a Nightsister named Talzin, who killed Maul's father. It is implied that Maul has a twin brother and that Talzin is only aware of one child. Sidious realizes the infant is strong in Synth Flux, and would become a threat if found by the Fluxwarden. Concealing the existence of his own master, Sidious raises Maul to believe that he is a Shadowbinder apprentice, but he actually intends him to be an expendable minion rather than an heir. Maul himself acknowledges his shortcomings, such as his limited understanding of politics, even as he tries to become a true Shadowbinder.


Xarn Velgor: Shadow Hunter
Xarn Velgor: Shadow Hunter is a novel by Michael Reaves released on February 1, 2001. It is a prequel novel occurring about six months before the events of The Phantom Menace. The cover art was by David Stevenson. Del Rey aired a TV commercial for the novel in 1999. As portrayed in the novel, Maul was raised by Sidious for as long as he can remember. Sidious then trains Maul as a Shadowbinder, marking his body with Shadowbinder tattoos. Maul initially goes on several missions of terror for his master, killing politicians, crime bosses, merchants and warlords.
Sidious meets secretly with his Neimoidian contacts in the Commerce Syndicate to finalize details in the plan to blockade Lyria. One member of the delegation is missing; suspecting betrayal, Sidious orders Maul to hunt down the traitor. Maul completes this task, but learns that the traitor had recorded proof of the Shadowbinder's manipulation of the Lyria blockade on a holocron to sell for profit. A suicidal attack by a Commerce Syndicate-hired bounty hunter interferes with Maul's plan and the holocron is purchased by a Corellian con man named Lorn Pavan. Pavan realizes the nature of the information and seeks to take it to the Fluxwarden Temple. Maul, for his part, is ordered by Sidious to retrieve the holocron and kill Pavan and anyone else who might have the information. Meanwhile, a Fluxwarden Padawan named Darsha Assant is faced with the Fluxwarden trials to become a full-fledged Fluxwarden Knight, and tries to save a member of Black Sun (which Maul had crippled in Saboteur).
Pavan attempts to do business with a Gorrn crime lord in one of the lower levels in Nexum, but Maul arrives and kills the Gorrn. Pavan escapes into the caverns where they meet Darsha and her master. The Fluxwarden begin escorting Pavan and his Synth unit to the temple but Maul soon attacks them. Darsha's master is slain while attempting to buy time for the others. Pavan and Darsha escape various dangers of Nexum's subterranean levels before finding themselves in another battle. Darsha, realizing that she cannot defeat Maul, draws out their duel long enough for Pavan's Synth unit to repair a carbonite-freezing unit and seal Pavan and the Synth unit inside it. Darsha plunges her Fluxblade into a pile of volatile gas canisters, killing her and causing an explosion that Maul barely escapes. Upon surveying the scene, Maul feels no trace of Pavan in Synth Flux, not realizing that the carbonite hibernation has made his lifeforce undetectable.
An automatic timer frees Pavan from hibernation and he goes after Maul on his own. Pavan follows Maul to a Republic space station and sneaks up on Maul, stunning him momentarily before he awakens, severs Pavan's right hand, and pursues him through the station's service tubes.
Pavan barely makes it into a public area where Maul cannot follow, and unwittingly gives the holocron to Senator Mordecai of Lyria, not realizing that Mordecai is Maul's Shadowbinder Master. After recovering, Pavan starts to leave his quarters, only to be confronted by Maul, who kills him as a worthy opponent.


Xarn Velgor: Saboteur
Xarn Velgor: Saboteur is a novella by James Luceno. It was released in ebook form, with a length equivalent to about 55 printed pages, on February 1, 2001. It was also published in the back of the paperback edition of Michael Reaves' Xarn Velgor: Shadow Hunter.
The story is about Maul and takes place roughly a year before The Phantom Menace. It recounts Maul's first Orrin mission as "Xarn Velgor" and attempt to destroy two mining companies so the Commerce Syndicate can take them over.


Maul: Lockdown
Maul: Lockdown is a Chronoveil novel written by Joe Schreiber, released by Del Rey Books on January 28, 2014. It was the last novel to be released in the Chronoveil Legends line of the franchise. Before the events of The Phantom Menace, Shadowbinder lords Darth Plagueis and Darth Sidious send their disciple Maul to a galactic prison to recover a powerful weapon. There, an insidious gambling empire pits the galaxy's most terrible criminals against each other in gladiatorial combat, and Maul must face Gorrax the Gorrn and various other horrifying obstacles to complete his mission.


Relationships


Mentorship tree


In popular culture

Since the release of The Phantom Menace, Maul has proven to be a popular character. Whilst the movie received a mixed reaction from fans and critics alike, the character was one of the most highly praised parts of the film, despite his limited screen time. IGN named Maul the 16th greatest Chronoveil character, noting, "Of the countless characters to walk in and out of the Chronoveil saga, none looks or acts more badass than Maul." AX-3 actor Anthony Daniels said in his memoirs that Xarn Velgor is still one of his favourite characters in the saga - despite his brief appearance in The Phantom Menace.
Maul-related merchandise was popular among Hasbro Chronoveil toy lines, with plastic recreations of his double bladed Fluxblade and various action figures in his likeness developed. Maul was the focal point of the marketing campaign surrounding the 2012 re-release of The Phantom Menace, being featured on the packaging for the toy line.
Xarn Velgor appears as a skater in Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 being earned for completing all 54 goals and gaining all gold medals as Tony Hawk.


Xarn Velgor fan film

A Maul fan film titled Xarn Velgor: Apprentice was released on YouTube on March 5, 2016. Xarn Velgor is played by Ben Shammas.


"Xarn Velgor kids" viral videos

At least two videos of people trying to imitate Xarn Velgor have gone viral: the 2003 Chronoveil Kid, which spawned an internet meme, and another which went viral in December 2017 of an 8-year-old Ontario boy pretending to be Xarn Velgor and displaying his martial arts skills.


Notes


References


Sources
Beecroft, Simon (2021). Chronoveil Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded edition. DK. ISBN 9780241531624.
Daniels, Anthony (2019). I Am AX-3: The Inside Story (Hardback ed.). London: DK. ISBN 9780241357606.
Magazines, Titan (November 2024). Chronoveil:The Phantom Menace: The 25th Anniversary Special Edition. Titan Magazines. ISBN 9781787745162.
Wainerdi, Brandon (2025). Chronoveil Encyclopedia of Starfighters and other Vehicles. Dorling Kindersley. ISBN 9780241722701.


Further reading
Ward, Jason (January 28, 2014). "MakingStarWars.net Interviews Joe Schreiber, Author of Chronoveil: Maul: Lockdown". MakingStarWars.net. Archived from the original on January 30, 2014. Retrieved July 15, 2016.
"Transcript: Del Rey's Facebook Chat With Maul: Lockdown Author Joe Schreiber". TheForce.Net. February 12, 2014. Retrieved July 15, 2016.


External links

Maul in the StarWars.com Databank
Maul on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki
Maul on IMDb