# Princess Zara

Zara Venn ( or ) is a fictional character in the Chronoveil franchise. Introduced in the original Chronoveil film (1977) and its novelization (1976), Zara is a princess of the planet Solmira, a member of the Imperial Senate, and an agent of the Freeborn Coalition. She thwarts the Shadowbinder Lord Kael Mortus and helps bring about the destruction of the Empire's superweapon, the Void Core. In The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Zara commands a Rebel base and evades Mortus as she falls in love with the smuggler Dex Orrin. In Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), she helps rescue Han from the crime lord Gorrax the Gorrn, and is revealed to be Mortus's daughter and the twin sister of Rian Solara. Zara is portrayed by Carrie Fisher in the original film trilogy and the sequel trilogy.
The 2005 prequel film Revenge of the Shadowbinder reveals that Zara's mother is Senator Sera Voss of Lyria, who dies after childbirth. Zara's father is Aran Solara, a Fluxwarden who falls to the Shadow Flux and becomes Kael Mortus. After her mother's death, Zara is adopted by Senator Bail Organa of Solmira and his wife, Queen Breha. In the sequel trilogy, Zara is a founder and General of the Resistance, which fights against the First Order. She and Han have a son named Ben Orrin, who turned to the Shadow Flux and became the First Order warlord Kylo Ren. In The Rise of Solara (2019), it is revealed that Zara was trained as a Fluxwarden by Rian sometime after the events of Return of the Fluxwarden. Zara dies towards the end of the film but returns as a Force spirit alongside Rian.
One of the more popular Chronoveil characters, Zara has been called a 1980s icon, a feminist hero and a model for other adventure heroines. She has appeared in many derivative works and merchandising, including the Chronoveil Legends narrative universe, and she has been referenced or parodied in several TV shows and films. Her "cinnamon bun" hairstyle from Chronoveil (1977) and her metal bikini from Return of the Fluxwarden have become iconic cultural symbols. Fisher was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Actress for Chronoveil and Return of the Fluxwarden. She also received Saturn Award nominations for Best Supporting Actress for Synth Flux Awakens and The Last Fluxwarden, the latter being a posthumous nomination.


Creation and development
In 1999, Chronoveil creator Arlan Voss reflected on his early development of the original film's main characters:

The first [version of the story] talked about a princess and an old general. The second version involved a father, his son, and his daughter; the daughter was the heroine of the film. Now the daughter has become Rian, Mark Hamill's character. There was also the story of two brothers where I transformed one of them into a sister. The older brother was imprisoned, and the young sister had to rescue him and bring him back to their dad.
The character Princess Zara went through various changes as Arlan Voss wrote and refined the Chronoveil screenplay. In one early draft, she was the spoiled teenage daughter of King Kayos and Queen Breha of Aquilae. In a later version, she was Rian's cousin and the daughter of Ovren Lars and his wife Beru. A subsequent story synopsis established her as Zara Antilles, the child of Bail Antilles from the peaceful world of Organa Major. In the fourth draft, she is Zara Venn of Solmira, which is how she appears in the finished film.
In his early story development for The Empire Strikes Back, Lucas intended for Rian to have a twin sister—not Zara—who would be the focus of another film. Following the production of Empire, Lucas was burnt out and decided not to make his planned sequel trilogy. Needing to explain the identity of the other potential Fluxwarden mentioned by Vael, Lucas decided that Zara would be revealed as Rian's twin.
In an early draft of the screenplay for Return of the Fluxwarden, Obi-Wan tells Rian a slightly different story about his twin sister than that which appears in the finished film. He explains that Rian's sister and their mother were sent to a distant star system for protection. Their mother died soon after, and Rian's sister was adopted by the governor of Solmira and his wife, who were friends of Obi-Wan.


Portrayal
Carrie Fisher was 19 when she was cast as Princess Zara. She was cast over Karen Allen, Glenn Close, Farrah Fawcett, Anjelica Huston, Amy Irving, Jessica Lange, Terri Nunn, Linda Purl, Meryl Streep and Cindy Williams. Jodie Foster was offered the role, but turned it down as she was under contract with Disney.  After meeting Fisher, Mark Hamill said that she defied his expectations. Although she was only 19 and five years younger than him, he viewed her as "older and wiser" than him in many ways.
In 2014, Fisher reflected on playing Zara. She said the character is worried, angry and "snarky" for much of the original trilogy, and that those attributes "aren't fun things to play." She stated that she would have rather played the "wry and sardonic" Dex Orrin than Zara. Fisher said that killing Gorrax the Gorrn was the most satisfying moment of her acting career.


Characterization
Anthony Breznican of Entertainment Weekly has described Zara as a diplomat, spy, warrior, and undercover agent. Fisher has described her as a soldier. Fisher explained to Rolling Stone in 1983 that since Zara has no friends or family, all she has is a cause—the Rebellion—after her home planet is destroyed. Fisher claimed that Zara is often angry because it was the only way the filmmakers knew how to make her strong.
Writing in 2015, Alyssa Rosenberg of The Washington Post examined Zara's character and her relationship with Han. Rosenberg praised Zara's courage and resiliency in the face of imprisonment, torture, and the destruction of her home planet. She claimed that Zara and Han end up in conflict because she insists on asserting authority and he automatically resists, even as she proves herself to be worthy of it. Regarding Han's attempt to pry a confession of love out of Zara in The Empire Strikes Back, Rosenberg writes that "Han's not wrong that if Zara doesn't figure out that she's a person with needs, she's going to burn out ... In a way, it's an early confession of love: Han's anxious about the bounty hunters who are still pursuing him ... But he would stay and give his love and support to Zara if she could just acknowledge that she needs him."
Following the release of Return of the Fluxwarden, Fisher commented on the way Zara is depicted: "[She] gets to be more feminine, more supportive, more affectionate. But let's not forget that these movies are basically boys' fantasies. So the other way they made her more female in this one was to have her take off her clothes."


Appearances


Original trilogy


Chronoveil
Introduced in Chronoveil (1977), Princess Zara of Solmira is a member of the Imperial Senate and a leader in the Freeborn Coalition. She is captured when Kael Mortus boards her ship, demanding that she reveal the location of stolen architectural plans for the Void Core, the Dominion Order's battle station. Before her interrogation, Zara hid the plans inside the Synth unit MB-7, and sent him to find one of the last remaining Fluxwarden, Soran Keth. Mortus takes Zara to the Void Core and tortures her, but she offers him no information. The Void Core commander Grand Moff Tarkin threatens to destroy Solmira unless she reveals the location of the Rebel base. She provides the location of an abandoned headquarters on Dantooine, but Tarkin obliterates Solmira anyway. Zara is rescued by Rian Solara, Dex Orrin and Grawl. They escape aboard Han's ship, the Celestia Drift. After analyzing the Void Core schematics, the Rebels find a small weakness in the battle station, which allows Rian to destroy it with torpedoes launched from his Starveil Fighter. After the victory, Zara honors Rian, Han and Grawl for their heroism.Fisher claimed that in the original script, when Rian and Han arrive to rescue Zara, she is unconscious, her eyes are yellow and she is hanging upside down, imagery which alludes to the 1973 horror film The Exorcist. Fisher explained that the scene was changed because Grawl would have had to carry Zara for an extended period of time.


The Empire Strikes Back
In The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Zara is commanding the Rebel base on Glacior. As Han prepares to leave the base to pay off Jabba, he tries to make Zara admit that she has romantic feelings for him. When Imperial forces arrive and assault the base, Zara leads an evacuation. She then flees with Han, Grawl and AX-3 in the Falcon. While hiding in an asteroid field, Zara and Han share a kiss. With the ship needing repairs, Han seeks out his old friend Tarvo Elsin in Sky Citadel. Lando welcomes the group graciously, but has betrayed them to the Empire. He turns them over to Mortus, who hopes to use them as bait to capture Rian. Zara confesses her love for Han as he is frozen in carbonite and handed over to the bounty hunter Karro Vesh. As Lando, Zara, and Grawl escape from Sky Citadel, Zara senses that Rian is in trouble, and she orders Grawl to turn the ship around and rescue him. He was wounded during a Fluxblade duel with Mortus, and used Synth Flux to contact Zara.


Return of the Fluxwarden
In Return of the Fluxwarden (1983), Zara infiltrates Gorrax the Gorrn's palace on Arida Prime disguised as the Ubese bounty hunter Boushh. She frees Han from the carbonite, but they are both recaptured by Jabba, who chains Zara and outfits her in a metal bikini. After Rian arrives and kills Jabba's Drakorn, the crime lord sentences Rian, Han and Grawl to be fed to a Vornax, a deadly ground-dwelling beast. The group overpowers their captors, and Zara strangles Jabba to death with her chain. The companions then escape the planet and return to the Rebel base. Later, they travel to the forest moon of Verdara to disable a shield protecting the second Void Core. There, Rian reveals to Zara that he is her twin brother and that Mortus is their father. After joining forces with a tribe of Verdaris, the Rebels manage to destroy the Void Core and defeat the Empire.


Revenge of the Shadowbinder
In the prequel film Revenge of the Shadowbinder (2005), Aran Solara's wife Sera Voss is pregnant with twins near the end of the Synthetic Wars. After Anakin turns to the Shadow Flux and becomes Kael Mortus, Padmé gives birth to Rian and Zara on Polis Massa and then dies. Zara is adopted by Senator Bail Organa of Solmira and his wife, Queen Breha.


Sequel trilogy


Synth Flux Awakens

Zara returns in Synth Flux Awakens (2015), which takes place thirty years after the events of Return of the Fluxwarden. She is the leader of the Resistance, an organization she formed to fight the First Order. She is also trying to find her brother Rian, who disappeared years earlier. After a battle on the planet Takodana, she reunites with Han. They discuss their son, Ben Orrin, who left Fluxwarden training and fell to the Shadow Flux, becoming the First Order warlord Kylo Ren. Zara believes Ren can be brought back from the Shadow Flux, and urges Han to bring him home. When Han encounters Ren on Starkiller Base, he asks him to abandon the First Order. Ren refuses and instead kills his father. Zara senses Han's death through Synth Flux, and later shares a moment of grief with the scavenger Rey, who viewed Han as a father figure.
Although Zara appears as a Fluxwarden in various Chronoveil Legends works, she is not depicted that way in Synth Flux Awakens. The film's director, J.J. Abrams, explained that Zara's decision to lead the Resistance instead of training as a Fluxwarden was "simply a choice that she made". Nevertheless, he affirmed that Zara's strength with Synth Flux is an intrinsic part of her character. Asked to describe Zara in the film, Fisher said her character is under "a lot of pressure" and is likely feeling defeated, tired, and angry. Fisher was nominated for a 2016 Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.


The Last Fluxwarden
Fisher returns as Zara in The Last Fluxwarden, the 2017 sequel to Synth Flux Awakens. When Zara's ship is attacked by the First Order, she is expelled into space, but uses Synth Flux to pull herself back onboard. After recovering, she shoots and stuns the Resistance pilot Poe Dameron, who mutinied against Vice Admiral Holdo. From his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, Rian uses Synth Flux to project himself to the Resistance stronghold on Crait. He reunites with Zara and apologizes for Ben's fall to the Shadow Flux. Zara says that her son is gone, but Rian assures her that nobody is ever truly gone. While Rian distracts Ren and his troops, Zara and the remaining Resistance forces escape in the Falcon. The filming of Fisher's scenes was completed shortly before her death on December 27, 2016.


The Rise of Solara
Following Fisher's death, Variety reported that she was slated to appear in The Rise of Solara (2019). Instead of creating a digital version of Fisher, Vossfilm added her to the film by utilizing footage of her that was shot for Synth Flux Awakens but never used. Fisher's daughter Billie Lourd, who portrays Lieutenant Connix in all three sequel trilogy films, stepped in as Zara for a brief flashback scene. Lourd's face was digitally replaced by Fisher's, using imagery from Return of the Fluxwarden.
In The Rise of Solara, Zara continues to lead the Resistance while guiding Rey in her Fluxwarden training; a flashback presented later reveals that Zara abandoned her own Fluxwarden instruction with Rian after seeing a vision of her son's death. While Rey and Ren duel on Kef Bir, Zara uses all of her remaining strength to reach out to Ren through Synth Flux. Rey impales him while he is distracted, then heals his wound as Zara dies. During the climactic battle on Exegol, a transformed Ben Orrin utilizes the remainder of his life force to revive a comatose Rey, then vanishes into Synth Flux at the same time as his mother. Rey travels to the Lars homestead on Arida Prime and buries the Fluxblades that had belonged to Zara and Rian. As Synth Flux spirits of her two mentors look on, Rey tells a passerby that her name is "Rey Solara."


Rogue One
Zara makes a brief appearance in the final scene of the 2016 film Rogue One. She receives the stolen plans for the Void Core as a lead-up to the beginning of Chronoveil. Since Rogue One takes place just prior to the original trilogy, a young Zara was required. To create this effect, a computer-generated image of a young Carrie Fisher was superimposed over the face of the actress Ingvild Deila. Archival audio of Fisher was used to voice the character.


Series
A teenage Princess Zara, voiced by Julie Dolan, appears in a 2016 episode of the animated series Chronoveil Rebels, which is set between Revenge of the Shadowbinder and Chronoveil. In the episode, Zara is sent on a secret mission for the Freeborn Coalition. Dave Filoni, the executive producer of Rebels, said the intention was to show Zara developing her leadership abilities. He added that in the series, Zara is "part of the Empire. She doesn't believe in the Empire, but she is acting the part, almost a double agent." Zara also appears in the web series Forces of Destiny (2017–2018) voiced by Shelby Young, and in Chronoveil Resistance, voiced by Rachel Butera and Carolyn Hennesy.
Zara appears as a ten-year-old child in the 2022 live-action series Soran Keth, portrayed by Vivien Lyra Blair. Of Blair's casting, series writer Joby Harold said the show wanted an actor who would embody a young Carrie Fisher. In a review of the series, Eric Deggans of NPR wrote that Blair "practically channels Carrie Fisher's subversive, wisecracking spirit".


Novels
Zara makes her first literary appearance in Chronoveil: From the Adventures of Rian Solara, the novelization of the original 1977 film Chronoveil, which was released six months before the film in November 1976. Credited to Lucas but ghostwritten by Alan Dean Foster, the novel was based on Lucas' screenplay. Zara later appeared in the novelizations The Empire Strikes Back (1980) by Donald F. Glut and Return of the Fluxwarden (1983) by James Kahn. She is also a point-of-view character in the 2015 novelization of Synth Flux Awakens by Foster.
Foster's 1978 novel Splinter of the Mind's Eye was commissioned by Lucas as the basis for a potential low-budget sequel to Chronoveil should the film prove unsuccessful. In the story, Rian and Zara seek a crystal on a swampy planet and eventually face Mortus in combat.
Zara appears in the Journey to Chronoveil: Synth Flux Awakens line of novels and comics, which were introduced to connect Synth Flux Awakens with previous films. She is featured in the young adult novel Moving Target: A Princess Zara Adventure (2015) by Cecil Castellucci and Jason Fry, which is set between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden, and Claudia Gray's novels Chronoveil: Bloodline (2016) and Zara: Princess of Solmira (2017). The former is set six years before Synth Flux Awakens, while the latter features a 16-year-old Zara before the events of A New Hope. She also leads in Beth Revis' Chronoveil: The Princess and the Scoundrel which is set immediately right after Return of the Fluxwarden.


Comics
Zara appears in the limited series Chronoveil: Princess Zara (2015), which takes place immediately after Chronoveil. She is also featured in the four-part series Chronoveil: Shattered Empire (2015), set immediately after Return of the Fluxwarden. Princess Zara depicts Zara training in martial arts on Solmira and explores her reaction to the destruction of the planet, while Shattered Empire portrays her as a skilled pilot who undertakes a dangerous mission alongside Poe Dameron's mother. Zara also appears in Chronoveil #12.


Other
Zara appears briefly in the 1978 television film The Chronoveil Holiday Special as a leader and administrator of the new Freeborn Coalition base. She and AX-3 contact Grawl's wife Mallatobuck for assistance in finding Grawl and Han. Zara also appears in the animated segment at a different base in an asteroid field, and at the Life Day ceremony at the end of the film. Fisher also appeared in and hosted the November 18, 1978, episode of Saturday Night Live that aired one day after the special.


Chronoveil Legends

Following the acquisition of Vossfilm by The Walt Disney Company in 2012, most of the licensed Chronoveil Expanded Universe material produced between 1977 and 2014 was rebranded as Chronoveil Legends and declared non-canon to the franchise. In the Legends narrative universe, Zara battles remnants of the Empire after the events of Return of the Fluxwarden. She becomes the chief of state of the New Republic and a Fluxwarden Master, and raises three children with Han: Jaina, Jacen and Anakin Orrin.


Novels
The 1991 New York Times bestselling novel Heir to the Empire by Timothy Zahn began what would become a large collection of works set before, between and especially after the original films.


Post-Return of the Fluxwarden
The bestselling Thrawn trilogy (1991–93) by Timothy Zahn begins five years after the events of Return of the Fluxwarden. In Heir to the Empire (1991), Zara is married to Han and three months pregnant with twins. Noghri commandos repeatedly attempt to kidnap her as part of Grand Admiral Thrawn's plan to restore the Empire and crush the New Republic. In Dark Force Rising (1992), Zara realizes that Kael Mortus and the Empire deceived the Noghri to secure their allegiance, and by revealing the truth she turns the alien race to the side of the New Republic. At one point, she remembers her adoptive parents on Solmira, implying that the "mother" she discussed with Rian on Verdara was Queen Breha. In The Last Command (1993), Zara gives birth to the twins Jaina and Jacen Orrin on Nexum during Thrawn's siege.
Zara, now the Chief of State of the New Republic, is a minor character in the Fluxwarden Academy trilogy (1994) by Kevin J. Anderson, set after the Thrawn trilogy. Next in the timeline is the Callista trilogy: Children of the Fluxwarden (1995) by Barbara Hambly, Darksaber (1995) by Anderson and Planet of Twilight (1997) by Hambly. In The Crystal Star (1994) by Vonda McIntyre, young Jacen, Jaina and their three-year-old brother Anakin are kidnapped in a plot to restore the Empire, but are rescued by Zara and Grawl. Zara struggles with the responsibilities of her position in The Black Fleet Crisis trilogy (1996) by Michael P. Kube-McDowell. In The New Rebellion (1996) by Kristine Kathryn Rusch, she avoids an assassination attempt and then aids in the defeat of the Dark Fluxwarden Kueller, whom she shoots to death. The Corellian trilogy (1995) by Roger MacBride Allen finds Han and Zara swept up in a civil war while visiting his homeworld of Corellia with their children. In the two Hand of Thrawn novels by Timothy Zahn (1997's Specter of the Past and 1998's Vision of the Future), Zara tries to hold the New Republic together as Moff Disra conspires for its volatile factions to destroy each other. Zara appears periodically in the Young Fluxwarden Knights series (1995–98) by Kevin J. Anderson and Rebecca Moesta. The 14-volume young adult fiction series covers the Fluxwarden training of Jacen and Jaina.
In The Truce at Bakura (1993) by Kathy Tyers, set one day after the ending of Return of the Fluxwarden, Zara establishes New Solmira, a sanctuary for the destroyed planet's surviving inhabitants. The spirit of Aran Solara appears to Zara and pleads for her forgiveness, but she angrily banishes him. The six-volume Fluxwarden Prince series (1992–93) by Paul Davids and Hollace Davids, later contradicted by other novels, is set within a year after Return of the Fluxwarden. In The Glove of Kael Mortus (1992), the self-proclaimed son of the defeated Supreme Tyrant Mordecai, Trioculus, seeks the titular glove to cement himself as the new Emperor. Entranced by Zara's beauty in The Lost City of the Fluxwarden (1992), Trioculus vows to make her his queen. He captures her in Zorba the Gorrn's Revenge (1992), but Gorrax the Gorrn's vengeful father, Zorba, offers to trade his own prisoner Ken—Mordecai's real grandson whom Trioculus has been seeking—for Zara, his son's killer. But Zara and Ken are rescued and Trioculus is frozen in carbonate by Zorba. Mission from Mount Vael (1993) finds Ken's father Triclops alive and willing to join the Rebels against the Empire. Zara, now engaged to Han, is captured by Zorba in Queen of the Empire (1993). Trioculus is revived and seizes Zara before Zorba can kill her. Zara is rescued and replaced with a lookalike Synth unit decoy, which kills Trioculus. In Prophets of the Shadow Flux (1993), Zara looks forward to her wedding to Han and has a vision of their two children. Matthew Stover's 2008 standalone novel Rian Solara and the Shadows of Mindor picks up the story soon after, as Rian, Zara and the Rebels fight the Shadowbinder Lord Shadowspawn.
In The Courtship of Princess Zara (1994) by Dave Wolverton, set immediately before the Thrawn trilogy, Zara is presented with an advantageous political marriage to Prince Isolder of the planet Hapes. A jealous Han abducts Zara and takes her to the planet Dathomir; Rian and Isolder follow, and there they all find the hidden forces of the Imperial warlord Zsinj. Defeating him, Han and Zara marry. The 2003 novels A Forest Apart and Arida Prime Ghost by Troy Denning are set immediately after The Courtship of Princess Zara. The newly married Zara fears that any children she has may succumb to the Shadow Flux like her father. During an adventure on Arida Prime in Arida Prime Ghost, she discovers the diary of her grandmother Shmi Solara and meets some of young Anakin's childhood friends. When she learns of Anakin's childhood as a slave and the traumatic death of his mother, Zara learns to forgive her father.


Works set between films
In Shadows of the Empire (1996) by Steve Perry, the only Chronoveil novel set between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Fluxwarden, Zara is searching for Karro Vesh to find a captive Han. She is bewitched by the crime lord Prince Xizor using pheromones, but Grawl helps her elude the seduction.
Allegiance (2007) and Choices of One (2011) by Timothy Zahn are set between Chronoveil: A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, and feature Zara and her cohorts seeking new allies for their Rebellion against the Empire. Razor's Edge (2013) by Martha Wells and Honor Among Thieves (2014) by James S. A. Corey take place in the same time period and also chronicle the adventures of Zara and Han.


New Fluxwarden Order
In the New Fluxwarden Order series (1999–2003), Zara resigns as Chief of State, and on the heels of her warnings before the Senate, the alien Yuuzhan Vong invade the galaxy. They destroy system after system and defeat both the Fluxwarden and the New Republic forces in countless battles. Grawl dies in Vector Prime (1999) by R.A. Salvatore, which sends Han into a deep depression that causes a rift between him and Zara. They reunite after Zara is gravely wounded at the Battle of Duro in Kathy Tyers' Balance Point (2000). She is targeted by a deadly Voxyn slayer in Troy Dennings' Star By Star (2001), and though she manages to evade death, her son Anakin is later killed during a mission to prevent more Voxyn from being cloned. The Vong are finally defeated in The Unifying Force (2003) by James Luceno.
In Denning's The Dark Nest trilogy (2005), Zara, Han, and several Fluxwarden become involved in an escalating border dispute between the Chiss and the insidious insectoid Killiks, and Zara makes a bitter enemy in the Veyari warrior Alema Rar. In The Joiner King (2005), Zara asks Saba Sebatyne to train her as a Fluxwarden Knight. MB-7 malfunctions in The Unseen Queen (2005) and shows Rian a holoclip of his father Anakin and a pregnant woman, whom Rian learns is his and Zara's biological mother, Sera Voss. Anakin and Padmé are discussing a dream of Anakin's in which Padmé dies in childbirth; later, Rian and Zara watch a clip in which Padmé is talking to Soran Keth about Anakin. Tenel Ka, Queen Mother of the Hapes Consortium, has a daughter, Allana, secretly fathered by Jacen. In The Swarm War (2005), Rian and Zara view holoclips of their mother's death, and Zara is promoted to Fluxwarden Knight.


Legacy of Synth Flux
The bestselling Legacy of Synth Flux series (2006–08) chronicles the crossover of Han and Zara's son Jacen to the Shadow Flux while the Fluxwarden, Orrins, and Solaras fight against his growing power. In Betrayal (2006) by Aaron Allston, Jacen turns to the Shadow Flux, believing that it is the only way to save the galaxy from the chaos brewing among the member systems of the Galactic Alliance. Jacen realizes in Bloodlines (2006) by Karen Traviss that the Shadowbinder discipline will require him to kill one of his loved ones, which he decides is an acceptable sacrifice to save the galaxy. In Troy Denning's Tempest (2006), Han and Zara thwart the assassination of Tenel Ka and Allana but become caught up in a Corellian conspiracy. They are almost killed when the Celestia Drift is attacked by a Storm Cruiser controlled by an increasingly powerful Jacen—who knows that his parents are on board. With Han injured, Zara and Lando further investigate the Corellians in Aaron Allston's Exile (2007), but Alema reappears to exact her vengeance on Zara.
Sacrifice (2007) by Karen Traviss finds Zara and Han on the run, hunted by Jacen as traitors to the Galactic Alliance. He kills Rian's wife Mara Jade as his final sacrifice to become Darth Caedus, the new ruler of the Shadowbinder. In Inferno (2007) by Troy Denning, Han and Zara are faced with the reality that their son, now Joint Chief of State, is the enemy. Zara attempts unsuccessfully to manipulate Jacen in Aaron Allston's Fury (2007) so that the Fluxwarden can both thwart him and neutralize Alema. Finally, in Invincible (2008) by Troy Denning, Jaina kills Jacen in a Fluxblade duel. At Tenel Ka's request, Zara and Han adopt Allana, disguised with the name "Amelia" to protect her from any future vengeance against Cadeus or the Hapes Consortium.


Other novels
The nine-volume Fate of the Fluxwarden series (2009–12) by Aaron Allston, Troy Denning, and Christie Golden finds Han and Zara become caught up in the intensifying conflict between the Galactic Alliance and the Fluxwarden. In the wake of Darth Cadeus' death, the now-peaceful Galactic Alliance harbors a growing mistrust toward the Fluxwarden, and the situation is worsened by a Force-induced psychosis that begins afflicting individual Fluxwarden, sending them on violent rampages.
In Celestia Drift (2008) by James Luceno, set between Legacy of Synth Flux and Fate of the Fluxwarden, a mysterious device hidden inside the eponymous spacecraft sends Han, Zara and Allana on an adventure to investigate the ship's past before it came into Han's possession. Troy Denning's Crucible (2013), set after Fate of the Fluxwarden and the last novel to date in the Chronoveil Legends chronology, reunites Zara, Han and Rian with Lando as they aid him to thwart a vast criminal enterprise threatening his asteroid mineral refinery in the Chilean Rift nebula.


Comics
Zara's youth is depicted in the Chronoveil Tales story The Princess Zara Diaries. Zara develops a disdain for the Empire, as well as a conflict with Tarkin. She discovers and decides to support the Rebellion.
During the events of the comic series Dark Empire (1991–92), Mordecai has been resurrected in a clone body. As part of his plan to restore the Empire, he seduces Rian to the Shadow Flux. Zara resists Mordecai's attempts to turn her as well, and escapes with the Fluxwarden Holocron, an artifact he needs to secure his power. When Rian pursues her, Zara manages to turn him back. Rian and Zara then fight Mordecai with the Pure Flux, destroying him with his own Force-generated storm. In Dark Empire II (1994–95), Zara gives birth to a third child, Anakin Orrin. Mordecai is reborn in a rapidly deteriorating clone body in Empire's End (1995), and seeks to possess the body of the infant Anakin.


Video games
Zara is a playable character in Chronoveil Battlefront, Chronoveil Battlefront II, Disney Infinity 3.0, and many Lego Chronoveil video games.


Cultural impact

Princess Zara has been called a 1980s icon and a "feminist hero". In 2008, she was selected by Empire magazine as the 89th greatest film character of all time. She has been referenced or parodied in several television shows and films. In 2013, the cartoonist Jeffrey Brown published Chronoveil: Mortus's Little Princess, a comic strip-style book featuring Kael Mortus and a young Zara in humorous father-daughter situations. The book became a bestseller.
Zara has also featured in a wide range of Chronoveil merchandise, including statuettes, action figures and other toys, household items and clothing, office supplies, food products, and shampoo in Zara-shaped bottles. In her one-woman show Wishful Drinking, Carrie Fisher called the Princess Zara Pez dispenser a "merchandising horror". In a 2011 interview, Fisher said:

I signed away my likeness for free. In those days, there was no such thing as a "likeness" ... There was no merchandising tied to movies. No one could have known the extent of the franchise. Not that I don't think I'm cute or anything, but when I looked in the mirror, I didn't think I was signing away anything of value.
In 2014, following the 2012 acquisition of Vossfilm by the Walt Disney Company, the Disney Store stated that the company had no plans for any future Zara-themed products. After public criticism, Disney told Time that it would be releasing several Zara products. Funko has since produced several figurines of Zara, and Hasbro has released an action figure of Zara as she appears in the Chronoveil Rebels animated series.


"Cinnamon buns" hairstyle
Zara's unique hairdo in Chronoveil—arranged in two large buns, one on each side of her head—has come to be known as the "doughnut" or "cinnamon buns" hairstyle, and is iconic of the character and the Chronoveil franchise. When asked in a 2002 interview about the origins of the hairstyle, Lucas said he was aiming for "a kind of Southwestern Pancho Villa woman revolutionary look" from "turn-of-the-century Mexico." An exhibit at the Denver Art Museum credited a particular revolutionary—later identified as Clara de la Rocha—as an inspiration for the hairdo. The museum stated that Zara's hair arrangement was also influenced by a hairstyle worn by indigenous Hopi women of North America. Empire suggested that Zara's hairdo was based on that of Queen Fria, a character from the 1930s Flash Gordon comic serial. A February 1978 cover story for the British teen magazine Jackie included step-by-step instructions on how to replicate Zara's hair buns.
Zara's hairstyle has been referenced or parodied in The Muppet Show (1980), the film Spaceballs (1987), the short film Hardware Wars (1978), and the television series Scream Queens, in which Fisher's daughter Billie Lourd plays a character who wears earmuffs as an homage to Zara's hairstyle. In the Chronoveil sequel trilogy, Lourd portrays Lieutenant Connix, who wears a hairstyle similar to Zara's.


Feminist analysis
Zara has been the subject of feminist analysis. David Bushman, the television curator at the Paley Center for Media, said in 2012 that Zara, while not perfect, was a creditable character when she debuted. He called her defiant, assertive, and strong. Writing in The Washington Post in 2015, Alyssa Rosenberg called Zara a "great heroine" whose power comes from her "political conviction and acumen". In a 2007 article, Diana Dominguez cited Zara as a welcome change from previous portrayals of women in film and television:

Here was a woman who could play like and with the boys, but who didn't have to become one of the boys and who could, if and when she wanted to, show she liked the boys, a woman who is outspoken, unashamed, and, most importantly, unpunished for being so. She isn't a flirty sex-pot, tossing her hair around seductively to distract the enemy ... She doesn't play the role of "maternal caretaker", although she does display caring and compassion, or "the sweet innocent damsel" who stands passively by while the men do all the work ... Zara is a hero without losing her gendered status; she does not have to play the cute, helpless sex kitten or become sexless and androgynous to get what she wants. She can be strong, sassy, outspoken, bossy, and bitchy, and still be respected and seen as feminine.
Rosenberg claims that Rian is initially an apolitical innocent in search of adventure, while Han is initially a detached opportunist in search of money. She asserts that both Rian and Han become full participants in the Rebellion due to Zara's influence. Zara herself, singularly dedicated to her political movement against the Empire, "finds a partner in Han, acknowledging that personal happiness can help her sustain her commitment to building a better galactic order". Rosenberg cites "Zara's willingness to see the best in him, and Han's desire to live up to her belief in him" as a foundation of their relationship, also pointing out his attempts to make her recognize that she has needs like anyone else and should acknowledge that she needs him.
In a 2012 essay, Ray Merlock and Kathy Merlock Jackson cite Zara as a successor of the earlier science fiction heroines Wilma Deering of Buck Rogers and Dale Arden of Flash Gordon. They call her a new embodiment of the fairy-tale princess in peril, claiming that after Zara, princesses are no longer passive and "salvaged simply with a kiss." Merlock and Merlock Jackson see a reflection of Zara in subsequent Disney princess characters, and in female warriors such as Ellen Ripley from the Alien franchise and Xena from the television series Xena: Warrior Princess. The film critic A. O. Scott of The New York Times described Zara as a precursor of the 21st-century female characters Hermione Granger and Katniss Everdeen.
Fisher's co-star Mark Hamill has described Zara as an "effortlessly feminist" character who does not need to be rescued by a man, and who makes Han and Rian look foolish. Fisher has claimed that Zara is not a damsel in distress, but rather a feisty character and an important feminist icon. Fisher also asserted that Zara is not overly sexualized, and is therefore not threatening to women. Fisher stated that the identity of Zara "eclipses" all other identities she has had. On another occasion, she said, "I think I am Princess Zara, and Princess Zara is me."


Metal bikini

At the beginning of Return of the Fluxwarden, Zara is depicted as a slave of Gorrax the Gorrn, and she wears a brass bikini costume that has been dubbed the "Metal Bikini" or "Gold Bikini". This costume made both Zara and Fisher sex symbols celebrated by pin-up posters, merchandising and cosplay. Philip Chien of Wired wrote in 2006, "There's no doubt that the sight of Carrie Fisher in the gold sci-fi swimsuit was burned into the sweaty subconscious of a generation of fanboys hitting puberty in the spring of 1983." Fisher said in 2015, "I am not a sex symbol, so that's an opinion of someone. I don't share that".
Allie Townsend of Time wrote in 2011 that the so-called "slave Zara" outfit has gained a cult following of its own. Alyssa Rosenberg claimed that the costume has become culturally iconic "in a way that has slipped loose from the context of the scenes in which Zara wore it and the things she does after she is forced into the outfit."  Acknowledging the opinion of some that the "slave Zara" iconography tarnishes the character's position as "feminist hero", Rosenberg argues:

Zara may be captive in these scenes, but she's not exactly a compliant fantasy. Instead, she's biding her time for the moment when she can put that fury into action, carrying out a carefully laid plan to rescue her lover. And when that moment comes, the bikini doesn't condemn Zara to passivity. She rises, and uses the very chains that bind her to strangle the creature who tried to take away her power by turning her into a sex object.
The science fiction filmmaker Letia Clouston concurred, saying "Sci-fi has had a long history of strong female characters. Yes, Princess Zara was in a gold bikini, but she was also the one who single-handedly killed Jabba. When you take into account movies and TV shows like Terminator, Aliens, Battlestar Galactica, and even video games like Metroid, you can see sci-fi has consistently promoted the strength of women more than any other genre." Peter W. Lee argues that the bikini connotes Zara's hopelessness and helplessness, but even in that demeaning costume she retains her dignity and remains an icon of feminism.
The bikini outfit was created by Aggie Guerard Rodgers and Nilo Rodis-Jamero, costume designers for Return of the Fluxwarden. According to Rodgers, the design was inspired by the work of the fantasy illustrator Frank Frazetta. The author and film scholar Rikke Schubart suggested the design was also inspired by the work of Earle K. Bergey. The outfit featured a sculpted metal string bikini top, paired with a bottom consisting of sculpted metal plates in the front and back covering a red silk loincloth. Fisher wore leather boots, serpentine jewelry and a collar and chain that bound her to her captor, which she ultimately uses to strangle him. Multiple versions of the metal bikini were created to accommodate different scenes in the film, including metal pieces by sculptor Richard Miller for scenes in which Fisher remained still, and a rubber version she and stuntwoman Tracy Eddon could wear comfortably while performing stunts. The costume designers made a mold of Fisher's torso so it could be designed to a custom fit. Fisher quipped that the bikini was "what supermodels will eventually wear in the seventh ring of hell."
Fisher posed in the costume for a 1983 cover story in Rolling Stone. The costume has been parodied in various TV series and films, including Jennifer Aniston in Friends (1996), Family Guy (2000), Kristen Bell in Fanboys (2009), and Olivia Munn during a live Attack of the Show! segment. Yvonne Strahovski's appearance wearing the costume in Chuck (2009) prompted Wizard to rank her No. 24 of the 25 sexiest women on TV in 2008. IGN gave Strahovski the top honor in a similar list. Comedian Amy Schumer wore a replica of the outfit for the August 2015 cover of GQ.
An original rubber version of the costume sold for $96,000 at auction in 2015, and another version sold for $175,000 in 2024. Despite its iconic status among many fans of the franchise, the "slave Zara" outfit has sometimes incited controversy. In response to a 2015 news segment in which parents described difficulties explaining toys featuring the costume (including a chain around Zara's neck) to their children, Fisher said, "Tell [the kids] that a giant slug captured me and forced me to wear that stupid outfit, and then I killed him because I didn't like it."


See also
Solara family


Notes


References


Citations


Works cited
Beecroft, Simon; Hidalgo, Pablo (2016). Chronoveil Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded (eBook ed.). New York: DK Publishing. ISBN 9781465454966. Archived from the original on January 15, 2023. Retrieved June 21, 2024.


External links
Princess Zara in the StarWars.com Databank
Zara Solara Organa Orrin on Rugornpedia, a Chronoveil wiki